<Winter is Coming>

 beyond the wall.
three rangers of the night's watch ser waymar royce , will , and gared depart from the wall to investigate reports of wildlings in the haunted forest which lies to the north , beyond the wall. will , the best scout in the group , discovers a number of wildling corpses dismembered and arranged in a strange , ritualistic fashion on the ground.
 wight of wildling girl. he also finds a dead wildling girl pinned to a tree. he reports back to the others. ser waymar overrides the older gared's advice that they return to castle black to report the situation to their superiors and instead insists on seeing the corpses for himself , to determine what killed them. when they reach the site , the bodies have disappeared. will scouts around for clues , but gared finds a bloody piece of clothing buried under the snow. further investigations are curtailed when a tall , humanoid figure with glowing blue eyes , a white walker , arrives and kills ser waymar with ease. gared attempts to escape but is caught and killed. will , in extreme horror , sees the dead wildling girl from earlier now walking with blue eyes , and also witnesses gared's death , with the white walker tossing his severed head at will's feet.
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
ned stark draws his sword.
some time later , will has fled south of the wall in terror , rather than return to warn castle black of the white walker threat. he is apprehended by outriders loyal to house stark , the wardens of the north , and is taken to lord eddard stark. lord eddard , in the courtyard watching his son , bran stark at archery training , decrees that as a deserter from the watch , will is an oathbreaker and must die. will accepts his fate , but tells eddard about the walkers first and asks that word be sent back to his mother. eddard carries out the execution himself , using the ancestral valyrian blade of their house , ice. two of eddard's trueborn sons , 17 year old robb and 10 year old bran , accompany him to the execution along with his bastard son jon snow , his ward , theon greyjoy , the master at arms rodrik cassel and his leading guard jory cassel. young bran witnesses an execution for the first time without flinching , earning praise from jon. eddard explains to bran that the reason he was made to execute will was because the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword. when bran asks his father about will's talk of white walkers , eddard dismisses it as a madman's ramblings , insisting that the walkers have been gone for centuries. the party sets out to return to winterfell.
 the starks come across the direwolves.
on the way back to the castle , the party finds a stag dead in the road , partially disemboweled. looking for what killed it , they find a dead female direwolf , killed with a stag antler piece broken off in her throat. the female died after giving birth , and her five pups huddle by the corpse for warmth. theon advocates killing the pups , but jon snow convinces his father that this is an omen the direwolf is the symbol of house stark , and eddard has five trueborn children. with bran looking on beseechingly , eddard agrees that his children should have the pups , but only if they raise them themselves with no help from the servants. just as the party leaves , jon finds a sixth pup , an albino runt of the litter. theon mockingly points out that this one belongs to jon.
in king's landing , the capital city of the seven kingdoms , the bells ring out to commemorate the death of lord jon arryn , the hand of the king. as the silent sisters prepare his body for burial , queen cersei lannister looks on. she is worried that jon discovered something he shouldn't have , and may have told someone. she confesses her fears to her twin brother , ser jaime lannister of the kingsguard , but he tells her not to worry , since if the king knew the truth they'd be dead already. she tells him he should be the new hand of the king , but he doesn't want the job. he considers it too much work. cersei accuses him of taking nothing seriously.
a raven bears news of jon arryn's death to winterfell , where lady catelyn stark informs eddard. he is particularly stricken because arryn served as a father figure to him , when he was fostered at the eyrie. she also tells him that king robert baratheon and much of the royal court rides for winterfell. eddard realizes that king robert means to name him as the hand to replace jon arryn. he ponders refusing , feeling his place is at winterfell.
over the next few weeks the stark children grow used to their rapidly growing direwolves robb names his grey wind , sansa calls hers lady , and arya names hers nymeria after a great warrior queen. jon names his ghost , for his white color and uncanny silence. bran calls his summer and six year old rickon names his wolf shaggydog. bran's mother catches him climbing on the rooftops of the castle , just as the royal party comes into view. he promises to stop , but his mother knows he is lying. winterfell prepares for guests. catelyn stark wants to make sure that tyrion lannister , a great reader , has enough candles , and the young men of the house get groomed , as they gossip about the queen , a reportedly great beauty.
 winterfell gathers to greet the royal party.
all of winterfell gathers in the courtyard as the royal party approaches. arya is late and annoys sansa by not being silent and respectful when they arrive. king robert rides in with his knights , while queen cersei is in a large wheelhouse. lord eddard presents his household to king robert. eddard and robert greet each other warmly , and then robert demands to see the crypts and pay his respects to eddard's deceased sister , lyanna , much to queen cersei's impatience. after robert and eddard depart , cersei sends jaime to find their younger brother tyrion , who is a dwarf. the imp has found his way to the brothel in the town outside winterfell , where he enjoys the attentions of a prostitute named ros. jaime tells tyrion , a man of limited height but with immense appetites , that he will be needed at the feast that night. jaime has hired three more prostitutes for tyrion , to hurry things along.
 lyanna's statue in the crypts of winterfell.
in the crypts robert offers up his prayers at the tomb of lyanna stark , eddard's younger sister , whom robert was betrothed to before she was kidnapped by prince rhaegar targaryen and died shortly after being rescued. he tells eddard that in his dreams he kills rhaegar every night anew. eddard reminds him that house targaryen was destroyed , but robert replies not all of them.
robert formally offers eddard the role of hand , and eddard asks for time to consider. robert agrees , but offers a sweetener the hand of his son , joffrey , in marriage to eddard's daughter , sansa. a great feast is held and cersei and catelyn exchange cordial words. cersei seems more impressed by sansa , thinking that she will be a great hit at court. outside the feast , jon snow works at his sword practice , angry that catelyn thought it would be inappropriate that a bastard should attend. his uncle benjen stark , first ranger of the night's watch , arrives to join the feast , and jon asks him to take him back to the wall with him. benjen agrees to consider it. tyrion lannister then arrives and talks to jon , suggesting that he is too pricklish and quick to take offense when his illegitimacy is pointed out. he should take the insult and wear it like armor , so that no one can hurt him with it. when jon angrily asks tyrion what he knows about it , tyrion replies that all dwarfs are bastards in their father's eyes.
eddard and catelyn receive a letter in the night , delivered to maester luwin by a messenger from the eyrie. the letter is from catelyn's sister , lady lysa arryn , the widow of jon arryn. in the letter , lysa says that jon arryn was murdered by the lannisters and that they plan to conspire against king robert. luwin counsels that eddard should accept robert's offer to be hand , so he can investigate the truth of the matter and protect the king. eddard , while he would prefer to stay at winterfell , agrees with luwin and accepts the offer.
the next morning eddard and robert go hunting , leaving the castle largely empty. bran indulges in some climbing but , while climbing a broken tower , he hears someone moaning. he peers through a window and finds the queen and her brother engaged in a sexual act. cersei spots him and warns jaime , who grabs bran. jaime looks out the window to make sure nobody else is watching and only sees summer. he turns to bran and asks how old he is. when bran replies ten , jaime remarks with a sigh , the things i do for love. with that , he pushes bran out of the window.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
in the free city of pentos , across the narrow sea , viserys and daenerys targaryen enjoy the hospitality of magister illyrio mopatis. viserys has arranged to wed his sister daenerys also called dany to khal drogo , the warlord of a dothraki khalasar of forty thousand warriors. in return , drogo will give viserys the army he needs to reclaim the iron throne. viserys prepares daenerys for meeting the khal. he tells her what a beautiful young woman she has turned into , and slips off her dress and fondles her breast. she is silent and looks away as if pretending it isn't happening. she steps into a hot bath that has just been poured. this greatly distresses her maid who believes the water will scald her. however , daenerys seems not to notice it and appears to be unharmed.
 drogo arrives in pentos and approves of daenerys.
illyrio and viserys discuss the quest to sail back to westoros , and viserys inquirers when the wedding will take place. daenerys is not pleased with the arrangement and blurts out that she does not want to marry drogo. viserys insists that she will , because in return drogo will give him the army he needs to retake their father's throne from robert baratheon. viserys adds that he would let her be raped by all forty thousand of drogo's men and their horses if it meant getting his throne back. a short time later , drogo arrives at illyrio's estate. after taking a glance at daenerys , drogo rides away without having to dismount from his horse. viserys is concerned , but illyrio assures him that , if he did not approve of daenerys , they would have known.
 daenerys in her wedding dress.
later , daenerys marries khal drogo and a great celebration is held. several people die in impromptu duels , which illyrio says is a good sign a dothraki wedding without at least three deaths is considered a dull affair. the bride and groom receive many gifts , but for dany , two are particularly interesting. the first is a box containing three beautiful stones. according to illyrio , these are dragon eggs from the shadow lands beyond asshai that have turned to stone with the passing of time. dany appears to feel some connection with the eggs , but brushes it off for the time being. the second is a selection of books containing stories and songs from the seven kingdoms , given by ser jorah mormont , an exiled knight of house mormont. ser jorah swears fealty to viserys as king and offers him his support and advice , which is accepted. for his gift , drogo gives daenerys a beautiful white stallion. viserys asks his sister to make drogo happy. drogo and daenerys ride down to the shore and consummate their marriage on the beach at sunset. daenerys is visibly upset and terrified.
 winter is coming is the first episode of the first season of game of thrones , preceded only by an unaired pilot episode. it first aired on 17 april 2011. a 15 minute preview of the first episode was shown on 3 april 2011. the episode was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by tim van patten.
king robert baratheon majestically arrives in winterfell , the home of his old and trusted friend , eddard stark , warden of the north , with an important offer.

<Kingsroad>

 across the narrow sea.
the dothraki khalasar led by khal drogo have departed pentos and are heading east. they travel away from the free cities and into the dothraki sea , the long grassed plains that the dothraki call home. viserys targaryen accompanies the khalasar , meaning to stay with drogo until he fulfills his end of the bargain and provides him with an army with which to invade westeros , despite ser jorah mormont's suggestion. he tells viserys that he offended his liege lord , eddard stark , by selling poachers into slavery. when he received word that eddard meant to execute him for the crime slavery has been illegal in westeros for centuries , he fled to essos. viserys laughs at the notion , saying such trivialities would not be punished under his reign. daenerys is finding adapting to her new role as khaleesi to be a huge challenge. only mormont offers her some solace saying it will become easier. daenerys is however fearful of her new husband and it is revealed that their first sexual encounter has left her slightly injured.
fascinated with her gift from illyrio , dany asks her handmaidens if they have ever heard of dragons surviving in the east. they reply no , but doreah , a former pleasure girl from lys , tells her an old story about how there used to be two moons in the sky. one wandered too close to the sun and cracked like an egg , spilling out thousands of dragons into the world. dany's dothraki handmaidens irri and jhiqui dismiss the story , saying that the moon is a goddess , wife to the sun.
daenerys seeks the advice of her handmaid doreah. doreah instructs daenerys on how to please drogo in bed but also how to use her skills to gain respect from him. reminding her , you are no slave and should not have sex like one. daenerys nervously puts these plans into action and is surprised to find drogo responsive , particularly once she starts using her body in combination with the dothraki language to speak to him.
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
robb stark says farewell to jon.
in winterfell , bran stark lies unconscious and badly wounded , his mother by his side. tyrion lannister insists that his nephew joffrey pay his respects to lord and lady stark , since his absence has been noted. when joffrey refuses , saying the boy means nothing to him , tyrion slaps him three times until he accepts his uncle's suggestion. tyrion then breakfasts with his other family members , informing them of his decision to journey north to see the wall before returning to king's landing. he also tells them that bran is expected to live and notes cersei and jaime's guarded reactions.
cersei visits catelyn stark , sitting by her son's side , and tells her that her first child , a beautiful , black haired boy , died of a fever. she and robert were grief stricken and her prayers and tears were for naught. she offers to pray for bran's survival , hoping that this time the gods will listen.
jon snow has winterfell's blacksmith , mikken , forge a light sword for his sister , arya. arya is excited by the gift and names it needle. jon also gives her advice on how to best use the weapon stick them with the pointy end. jon urges arya to practice every chance she gets. jon then says goodbye to the comatose bran , before departing at his stepmother's cold request. eddard then says his goodbyes to his son and to catelyn , who is angered at his departure while bran remains ill. .
 the two parties depart winterfell.
the parties depart winterfell jon , tyrion and benjen stark to the wall and eddard , arya , sansa and the royal party south to king's landing. at their parting eddard tells jon that , though he does not have eddard's name , he has his blood. he also promises jon to tell him about his mother the next time they meet. .
 eddard stark says goodbye to his bastard son.
days later , on the kingsroad south to the capital , king robert baratheon calls a halt to discuss with eddard some dire news that has just arrived. robert's spies have learned of daenerys targaryen's marriage to khal drogo , whose khalasar is reported to number over one hundred thousand warriors. eddard points out that the dothraki cannot cross the narrow sea , as they have no ships , but robert is concerned that the seven kingdoms will soon face another war. a curious robert asks eddard about wylla , the mother of his bastard son , but eddard refuses to enlighten him. robert reminds him that they were in the middle of a war and no one knew if they would ever return to their families.
in winterfell , catelyn's refusal to leave bran's side is starting to cause problems for the smooth running of the castle. robb offers to work with maester luwin to put the castle to rights. there is then a fire in part of the castle , but this proves to be a distraction to allow an assassin to attempt to finish off bran. catelyn holds the assassin off long enough for bran's direwolf to enter the chamber and tear out the assassin's throat.
 jon and tyrion discussing matters.
traveling north , jon and tyrion talk , and tyrion reveals that he reads books to sharpen his mind , his greatest asset and weapon. as it travels north , the party is joined by several , new recruits rapists who chose to take the black , rather than face the knife. tyrion tells jon that the night's watch is not a noble institution of glorious knights defending the realm against the horrors lurking beyond the wall , but a dumping ground for the unwanted and for criminals.
in winterfell , catelyn goes to the tower from where bran fell and finds a strand of blonde hair on the floor. she summons robb , theon , luwin and the castle master at arms , ser rodrik cassel and tells them that she suspects that the lannisters tried to kill bran because he might have seen something in the tower. robb and theon are all for making war , but luwin schools them to caution. catelyn decides that ned must know the truth and resolves to travel south to king's landing and meet him there. ser rodrik will go as escort , while robb will take charge of the castle in her absence. .
 the wall , as seen by jon's party.
jon's party crests a rise and sees the wall before them. benjen welcomes them , and tyrion seems impressed by the wall's sheer size.
on the kingsroad , the royal party reaches the crossroads inn , a noted waystop on the way south to the capital. prince joffrey's bodyguard , sandor clegane , known as the hound , a man with half his face burned in a mysterious accident , introduces sansa to ser ilyn payne , the king's headsman , a frightening looking man who had his tongue torn out on the orders of the mad king many years ago. joffrey saves sansa from this unpleasantness and takes her for a walk along the riverbank. they find arya practicing her sword work with the son of the party's butcher , mycah. joffrey pretends to take offense at mycah using a sword on the sister of his betrothed and starts to gleefully cut mycah's face with his sword , but an outraged arya hits him on the head with a stick. joffrey quickly becomes violent and threatens arya at sword point , but before he can hurt her , arya's direwolf , nymeria , attacks joffrey , biting at his arm. mycah runs off , and arya throws joffrey's sword in the river before running off herself. sansa tries to help joffrey , but he spitefully tells her to leave him alone and go for help.
arya , knowing that nymeria will be punished for injuring the prince , forces the direwolf to flee by throwing a rock at her. she is then taken before the king , who is angered that a minor fracas has become a major incident , with his wife and new hand blaming one another's children. he decides to let ned discipline arya while he will do the same to joffrey , but cersei demands that the direwolf be executed. when nymeria cannot be found , cersei spitefully requests that sansa's direwolf lady be killed instead , and robert acquiesces , upsetting sansa and angering arya.
furious , eddard attends to the matter himself , passing the hound arriving with mycah's bloodied corpse. eddard is shocked and disgusted , and when he asks if the hound ran mycah down , the hound responds he ran , but not very fast. eddard kills lady with a dagger , and hundreds of miles away , bran awakens.
 the kingsroad is the second episode of the first season of game of thrones. it is the second episode of the series overall. it first aired on april 24 , 2011. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by tim van patten.
jon snow prepares to depart for the wall.

<Lord Snow>

 in king's landing.
the stark party arrives in king's landing.
the royal party reaches king's landing. almost immediately , lord eddard stark is asked to attend a meeting of the king's small council and to change his clothes , but he refuses to the latter. before that he encounters jaime lannister in the throne room. jaime is still unhappy that eddard judged him dishonorable for killing the mad king , the murderer of eddard's father and brother. jaime is unrepentant about it. eddard meets the council members lord petyr littlefinger baelish , the king's master of coin and a friend of eddard's wife from childhood grand maester pycelle , the king's adviser in all matters scientific and academic lord renly baratheon , the youngest of the king's two brothers and master of laws and varys , a eunuch and the master of whisperers the head of the king's intelligence network .
varys tells eddard that the council members heard about his troubles on the kingsroad and that they pray for joffrey's recovery. eddard grimly responds it's a shame no one prayed for the butcher's boy , which visibly upsets varys.
eddard is stunned to learn that the crown is six million gold dragons in debt , half of which is to lord tywin lannister. to make matters worse , king robert has just ordered a lavish tournament to celebrate eddard's appointment. he resolves to advise robert to cancel the tournament , but the council is doubtful that the king will listen.
 cersei and her son joffrey.
queen cersei talks to joffrey about the incident on the river. she tells him that when he is king , the truth will be whatever he decides it will be. joffrey thinks there will be trouble with the starks , and promises that when he is king , he will double their taxes , force them to contribute to a standing army and , should they object , crush them and install someone loyal , such as his great uncle kevan , as warden of the north. cersei points out that the north is too vast and wild to be militarily conquered by outsiders , and a king needs to be more clever. she also advises him to be kind to his betrothed sansa stark to avoid stirring up trouble for later , and concludes that anyone who isn't us is an enemy.
arya and sansa are still at odds over the incident with joffrey and her direwolf. eddard explains that sansa was put in a difficult position by the king and queen , and while she shouldn't have lied , winning the long term approval of joffrey , her future husband , was important. arya is unhappy with the situation , but eddard mollifies her by allowing her to practice with her sword , needle.
 catelyn and rodrik arrive in king's landing. catelyn stark and ser rodrik arrive at king's landing and attempt to sneak into the city , but are spotted by one of littlefinger's men. they are taken to meet littlefinger at a brothel he owns , where lord varys is also waiting one of his 'little birds' told him they were coming. catelyn is angered by the way they've been treated , but asks littlefinger for aid in finding the people who tried to have bran killed. littlefinger is able to answer this quickly the elaborate dagger wielded by the assassin used to be his , but he lost it in a gamble with tyrion lannister.
 eddard threatens lord baelish.
littlefinger fetches eddard to meet his wife , but eddard suspects a trick and pushes littlefinger up against a wall outside the brothel wanting to know what his game is. catelyn then appears , and eddard is pacified. after hearing her news , he vows to find the truth and expose the lannisters to robert. littlefinger agrees to be his ally in this , for the affection he once bore catelyn as a youngster.
ravens arrive at king's landing with news of bran's recovery. cersei fears he will expose their secret , but jaime comforts her.
 jaime comforts cersei.
elsewhere , robert swaps old war stories with ser barristan selmy , a distinguished and famous knight and the commander of the kingsguard. summoning jaime lannister , robert jokingly questions him about aerys targaryen's death , wondering if the mad king died begging for mercy , but jaime rather coldly replies that the master he betrayed died screaming the same words he'd been saying since the siege of king's landing began burn them all .
eddard has contracted a swordmaster , syrio forel , the former first sword of braavos , to teach arya how to use her sword properly. arya is thrilled , and 'the dance' begins. as eddard watches them practice , his pleasure at seeing arya happy sours when he realizes that a conflict between the starks and lannisters may be inevitable his daughter may well be training herself for war.
 in the north.
old nan tells bran of winter and the long night.
at winterfell , bran has awoken but has no memory of his accident. his injuries have left him bedridden and unlikely to walk again. old nan , the oldest servant in the castle , tells bran stories to pass the time , but he doesn't want her usual heroic stories about the likes of ser duncan the tall. she instead speaks of the white walkers and the coming of a vast winter that will blanket the world. when robb pays a visit , bran asks his brother if it is true that his legs are crushed and that he will never walk again. robb reluctantly says this is so. bran remarks that he would rather be dead.
 at the wall.
at castle black , the primary redoubt of the night's watch in the shadow of the wall , jon snow shows his worth to the trainer , ser alliser thorne , by besting several fellow members of the watch in the practice yard. thorne is disgusted at the poor performance of the others but has no praise for jon either , dubbing him lord snow and describing him as the least useless person here . watching over the new recruits with lord commander jeor mormont , tyrion notes thorne's stern and unusual ways , but jeor doesn't care as he only requires thorne to turn the thieves and runaways into men of the night's watch. later on , several of the other recruits gang up on jon , but the situation is defused by tyrion. tyrion points out to jon that none of the other recruits had the benefit of a skilled master at arms to train them , and that jon is alienating them through his standoffish attitude and superior combat skills.
 benjen talks with jon on the wall.
benjen stark meets jon atop the wall and tells him he is going on a ranging in the haunted forest. he refuses to take jon with him , telling him he isn't ready , and that here rank and nobility mean nothing every man must earn everything he gets. before departing , benjen stops by the eating area to farewell yoren , a fellow night's watchman who scouts for new recruits in the capital. benjen also scolds tyrion for his naivety regarding what is north of the wall and states that tyrion has no authority to say what is or isn't beyond the wall as he hasn't been out there himself.
later , tyrion discusses north of the wall with jeor mormont and his chief adviser , the ancient and blind maester aemon. jeor asks for tyrion to intercede at court and get the watch more men as they are dangerously undermanned. aemon warns that the stark words are right a terrible winter is coming and more dangerous things than just wildlings might come with it after all , one of their number swore that the white walkers had returned ... right up to the moment ned stark cut his head off. tyrion admits his skepticism that supernatural creatures might exist , but he agrees to bring word to his queen.
before departing for king's landing , tyrion fulfils an old ambition by climbing to the top of the wall and urinating off the edge of it. he and jon share a moment of fellowship before tyrion departs for the capital in the company of yoren.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
daenerys rides with the khalasar.
daenerys commands the khalasar to halt on a whim , exercising her growing authority and power. viserys does not take well to being commanded and threatens his sister. he is strangled by rakharo , a dothraki warrior wielding a whip. daenerys calms the situation and viserys is forced to walk , a sign of shame amongst the horse riding dothraki. later , irri reveals to daenerys that daenerys is pregnant. daenerys relays the news to khal drogo and tells him she thinks it will be a boy as they lie naked in each other's arms. ser jorah mormont and rakharo compare the westerosi and dothraki ways of battle the heavily armored but slow knights versus the lightly armored but fast moving horse warriors. jorah has heard of rakharo's father , a great warrior , but admits that he disgraced his own father , a man of great honor. when he learns that daenerys is pregnant , he announces he must split off from the column to ride to the free city of qohor , but will rejoin them before they reach vaes dothrak.
 lord snow is the third episode of the first season of game of thrones. it is the third episode of the series overall. it first aired on may 1 , 2011. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by brian kirk.
jon snow attempts to find his footing at castle black amidst hostility and suspicion from his fellow members of the night's watch. eddard stark and his daughters arrive at king's landing. catelyn renews an old friendship with a member of the court , while daenerys and viserys journey onwards to the dothraki capital of vaes dothrak.

<Cripples, Bastards and Broken Things>

 in the north.
tyrion speaks with bran. in winterfell , bran stark has a nightmare in which he sees a three eyed raven , sitting on one of the stone direwolves outside the doorway to the stark crypts. he wakes up to find his direwolf summer by his side. theon greyjoy summons hodor , the castle's dim witted stableboy , who can only say the word hodor , to help carry bran down to the great hall , where robb stark is hosting a meeting with tyrion lannister and yoren , both traveling down from the wall to king's landing together. robb very pointedly offers hospitality to any man of the watch , silently letting tyrion know he is not invited to stay at winterfell.
when bran arrives , tyrion sympathizes with bran for being a cripple , which annoys bran , as does asking him if he likes to ride , but tyrion simply says it is the truth , no less so for being a hard truth. he gives the starks the design of a saddle which will allow bran to ride even in his current state. he does it to repay bran's half brother's friendship and because he has a weakness for , cripples , bastards and broken things. due to this kindness , robb says he can stay , but tyrion says he would prefer the brothel in town. while preparing to leave the castle , theon comes to tyrion and rather condescendingly sends him off , recommending the prostitute ros at the brothel. tyrion asks theon why lady catelyn was not present to receive him and concludes that catelyn is not in winterfell. he also taunts theon about how the son of the ferocious balon greyjoy has been reduced to playing lackey in winterfell to his captors , which infuriates theon and gives him a coin , assuming that he has not already had sex with ros.
 at the wall.
samwell tarly joins the new recruits at castle black.
at castle black , a new recruit for the night's watch has arrived samwell tarly , the son of the famous lord randyll tarly. samwell is fat , soft and pampered , and in his first practice fight does dismally. ser alliser thorne has no time for his weakness. he directs the other recruits to attack 'ser piggy' , but jon snow finds this cruel and unfair , and takes pity on sam and fends off the attackers. thorne tries to turn it into a game , ordering three trainees take on sam's protector taunting jon that he has found a new lady love , but jon nevertheless fends them all off. samwell is naive and self deprecating , claiming to be a coward and craven , to jon's astonishment. no one admits to being a coward , and grenn says that they shouldn't even be seen talking to him.
sam joins jon on the wall for sentry duty , even though he says his eyesight is weak , he is afraid of heights , and can't take the cold. jon asks why he joined the night's watch as he is afraid of everything. sam tells him that on his eighteenth nameday his father offered him a choice. sam was a man and his heir , but he was not skilled at combat , he was unworthy of his name and birthright. samwall's father forced him to join the night's watch , and told him that if he refused , he would arrange a hunting trip with his son in the woods , and implied that sam would be killed in a way that looked accidental. jon is shocked that a true born son of high birth should be treated worse than he himself had been as a bastard. sam knows that the next day he will be made to fight again and expects it to be bad.
 grenn yields to samwell. at the wall , jon orders the recruits to go easy on sam , but rast refuses , saying that if ser alliser orders him to fight 'lady piggy' , he will slice himself off a side of bacon. in response to rast's comments , jon goes to his bed that night and uses his direwolf ghost to intimidate rast into playing along. the next day , no one will fight sam. after grenn takes a very weak blow from sam and yields , ser alliser scolds jon for his rebellious actions. later , when jon and sam are cleaning the dining hall , they talk about how neither of them have been with a woman. sam tells jon that he has not had success with girls , while jon reveals he'd rather not risk siring a child that will have the life of a bastard like himself. a furious alliser thorne comes in and tells jon that this charity won't help sam harden up to survive the winter that is coming. he tells them the truly horrific experience he went through trapped by a blizzard north of the wall that ended in cannibalism.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
khal drogo's khalasar arrives at vaes dothrak , the dothraki city. there are no city walls , but there is a large gateway arch made of two statues of rearing horses. viserys is annoyed that drogo has been taking 'his' army in the wrong direction. later , he bathes with doreah and tells her about how he was raised with stories about the targaryen dragons and his own destiny. he recites the names of several dragons , and tells her about the skulls of dragons that once decorated the throne room at king's landing , but she starts to annoy him with talk of dragons , reminding him that they are dead. he tells her to finish pleasuring him in silence.
viserys is enraged when daenerys sends doreah with an invite for him to dine with her , as he interprets this as his sister commanding him to come. he drags doreah into daenerys' tent , and insults her dinner and the gifts of clothes she tries to give him. he is still dressed in his now ragged clothes from pentos , having refused to dress like a dothraki , whom he regards as savage pordh. he sneers that next she will try to braid his hair like a dothraki. daenerys retorts that he has no right to braid his hair until he is victorious in battle , which further infuriates him. in his anger , viserys tackles her to the ground and tries to strike her , calling her nothing but a horselord's slut , and warning her that she's awoken the dragon , but this time she fights back , hitting him in the face with a metal and leather belt. she tells a thunderstruck viserys that she is the khal's wife , and is carrying his child and by implication , viserys is nothing to the dothraki , and warns that if he raises a hand against her again , he will lose his hands. later , daenerys confides in mormont her realization that viserys will never become king of westeros. he is so weak and ineffectual that he couldn't command an army even if drogo gave him one , to which jorah agrees.
 in king's landing.
in the red keep , sansa stark visits the great hall , where the iron throne sits. she and septa mordane discuss the expectation that sansa will have to provide joffrey with an heir. sansa thinks the realm will hate her if she only has daughters , along with her belief joffrey is still angry over the incident by the river and her anger at her father over lady's death.
 the small council meets. during a meeting of the small council , lord eddard learns that the forthcoming tournament to celebrate his appointment is seeing the city swell with visitors , and has already resulted in a tavern riot , a brothel fire , three stabbings and a drunken horse race. he tells littlefinger that money will have to be found to strengthen the city guards , as well as giving twenty of his own men to janos slynt's command , until the tournament is over. after the meeting eddard talks to grand maester pycelle about jon arryn's last few weeks. pycelle said he did all he could to save jon arryn , but the illness was sudden and severe. he recalls that shortly before his sudden illness , arryn had borrowed a truly boring book about the lineages of the seven kingdoms , and his last words were , the seed is strong.
taking the book with him , eddard comes across arya in the hall standing on one leg as part of her training with syrio. arya asks whether bran would be able to live in king's landing with them now that he's awoken , but eddard states that he would have to regain his strength first. arya then comments that bran had always wanted to be a knight in the king's guard , but will no longer be able to due to his paralysis. eddard confirms this to be the case , but states that bran will be able to do many other things such as become lord of a holdfast , sit on the king's council , or raise castles. when arya asks if she would be able to become any of those , eddard instead tells her that she will marry a highborn lord and have lords and princes for sons. however , arya is not pleased with this response , telling her father , that's not me. she goes back to balancing on one leg as eddard looks on.
 petyr talks with eddard. littlefinger meets with eddard and suggests that he keep his investigation into jon arryn's death lower in profile. he also gives eddard some interesting intelligence jon arryn's former squire has been knighted and will fight in the forthcoming hand's tourney. he also advises him to investigate an armorer located in the city. eddard decides that littlefinger may be more trustworthy than he first thought , but littlefinger discourages him from thinking that way. eddard sends jory cassel to question jon arryn's former squire , ser hugh of the vale. however , deducing that jory was not a knight , ser hugh simply rebuffs him and refuses to speak with him due to his much lower rank. eddard's investigation leads him to a smithy in the city , where he meets master smith tobho mott and his apprentice gendry , whose work jon arryn was also apparently interested in. eddard realizes that gendry is one of king robert's bastard sons , but can't work out why jon arryn would be interested in this robert has many bastard children and shows little interest in any of them.
later , eddard sends jory with a message for king robert , but upon arriving at his quarters , the sounds of many women can he heard coming from robert's chamber. ser jaime lannister happens to be on duty and is angry that the king keeps him guarding his chamber while he cavorts with other women inside , flaunting his dishonorable treatment of jaime's sister in his face. he and jory reminisce about the greyjoy rebellion , in which they both fought for king robert's forces to put down an attempt by balon greyjoy theon's father to secede the iron islands from the rest of the realm. jory tries to leave eddard's message with jaime , but is rebuffed , as jaime angrily states that he does not serve lord stark. littlefinger , arya , sansa and septa mordane at the tournament. the tournament begins and sansa watches from the stands. ser gregor clegane , the elder brother of sandor clegane , the hound , takes the field. his first joust is with ser hugh. however , the friendly joust turns nasty and gregor kills ser hugh by accident , with a splinter of the lance impaling his neck. littlefinger sits next to sansa , and remarks that she and joffrey have had a lover's quarrel as joffrey is still giving her the cold shoulder . baelish then tells sansa that gregor , the mountain that rides , has a dark reputation he pushed his little brother sandor's face into a fire for taking and playing with a toy of his when they were young , burning him severely. littlefinger recommends that sansa not spread that story around.
cersei visits eddard at his chambers , remarking at how the hand is not at his own tournament. though cersei attempts to start the conversation in an attempt to put the incident on the kingsroad behind them , eddard correctly deduces that she has an ulterior motive for her visit. cersei then wonders aloud to eddard what his true purpose is for being at king's landing , as she knows how little starks enjoy being in the capital. when eddard tells her he is to faithfully serve their king , cersei remarks that as his brother brandon was born to lead , eddard was born to follow.
 in the riverlands.
at the crossroads inn , catelyn and ser rodrik cassel , on their way home to winterfell , are enjoying the hospitality of the innkeeper and , more reluctantly , the attempts by the troubadour marillion to ingratiate himself with them. he is doing a poor job when he asks if they would like a song , he is refused. they are surprised when tyrion lannister and yoren arrive. when told there aren't any rooms , tyrion holds up a gold coin and asks if someone has a room for him. quickly tyrion gains the favor of a sellsword , bronn , who agrees to give his room to tyrion. marillion draws the attention of tyrion to catelyn's table , by offering to serenade him while he eats , singing of his father's military victories. tyrion says nothing would more likely ruin his appetite , but as he is turning away , he recognizes catelyn and is surprised at this meeting by chance. in return catelyn tells the stunned inn that tyrion tried to murder her son bran twice and that she asks their help in bringing him to the king's justice. the inn is located in the riverlands , in the territory controlled by her father , so the knights present owe him their fealty. tyrion finds himself surrounded by half a dozen men with swords , and in catelyn's custody.
 cripples , bastards and broken things is the fourth episode of the first season.
tyrion lannister stops at winterfell on his way back to king's landing and gets a frosty reception from robb stark , despite an act of kindness for bran. samwell tarly joins the night's watch , and jon becomes his friend and protector. daenerys arrives at vaes dothrak and finally stands up to viserys. eddard stark continues to investigate the death of jon arryn. king robert baratheon hosts a grand tourney for eddard's investiture as hand of the king , to ned's discomfort. catelyn and ser rodrik cassel stop at the crossroads inn.

<The Wolf and the Lion>

 in the vale.
tyrion lannister and his escorts in the hills of the vale.
tyrion lannister has his blindfold removed and finds that their party augmented by several knights and the sellsword bronn from the crossroads inn is on the eastern road en route to the vale of arryn. catelyn notes that she said they were riding for winterfell often and loudly. tyrion congratulates her on her cunning , while pointing out that his father will give out a handsome reward for his safe return a point that clearly piques bronn's interest . he also says that lady lysa arryn has gone mad since her husband's death and will try to kill him in the eyrie. tyrion also protests his innocence in the attempt on bran's life and points out he'd have to be an idiot to give the assassin his own blade. before catelyn can answer , the party comes under attack from one of the hill tribes. despite taking several losses , the party is able to drive off the attackers. despite having the opportunity to escape , tyrion fights , killing his first man during the skirmish , and in doing so saves catelyn's life. afterwards , they resume their trek to the eyrie.
 tyrion and catelyn in the eyrie's high hall.
in the high hall of the eyrie , lady lysa arryn holds court on behalf of her young son , robin. lysa is furious that cat has endangered them all by bringing tyrion to the vale. tyrion points out that if he is harmed , there will be war with house lannister , but lysa is unconcerned about his threats , as the vale is strongly defended and the eyrie is impregnable. she orders him sent to the sky cells , three sided cells with the fourth open to a sheer drop down the mountainside , forcing tyrion to huddle in a corner and try not to roll out to his death in his sleep.
 in the north.
in winterfell , bran is angry about his mother's absence. maester luwin tries to set his mind at rest about the matter , to no avail. however , when bran gets frustrated at not being able to practice his archery , luwin suggests that he could learn to use a shortbow , of the kind used in mounted combat by the dothraki , a notion which pleases bran. .
 bran and maester luwin discuss geography.
elsewhere in the castle , theon greyjoy enjoys the attentions of his favorite whore , ros , but becomes annoyed when she compares his prowess unfavorably to that of tyrion lannister.
 in king's landing.
lord eddard stark arrives at the tourney ground to speak to lord commander barristan selmy about the death of ser hugh of the vale. barristan notes that he had no family or friends so he stood the knight's vigil himself for ser hugh. eddard is suspicious of ser hugh's death , wanting to know how he could afford a new set of armor so soon after being made a knight. barristan reflects on the irony of them being on opposite sides of the war during robert's rebellion and now they are working together. .
 ser barristan selmy and lord eddard stark discuss the death of ser hugh.
he also tells eddard that king robert is planning to joust during the day's activities. eddard finds king robert tormenting his squire , lancel lannister , finally sending him off on a snipe hunt in amused disgust. robert is adamant about fighting in the joust but eddard tells him that he is too fat for his armor and the other knights would let him win. robert is forced to admit that he's right but they can at least watch the joust from the stands.
the first tilt of the day is between the fearsome ser gregor clegane , the mountain , and the popular 'knight of the flowers' , ser loras tyrell. loras gives a beautiful flower to sansa stark , while littlefinger and lord renly make a wager on who will win with renly betting on loras. loras is riding a mare that is in heat , which confuses the mountain's horse , causing him to throw his rider. .
 king robert baratheon is dismayed to find he no longer fits his armor.
enraged at having lost , gregor first decapitates his horse and then attacks ser loras. sandor clegane comes to loras' defense , preventing his brother from killing him. they exchange several blows , until king robert orders them to cease. sandor immediately bows to the king , while gregor storms off the field. ser loras declares sandor the victor of the match to the hound's discomfort.
in the red keep , lord varys meets with eddard. varys tells him that the king is a fool and will soon be dead unless eddard can save him. eddard wants to know why varys is telling him this now. varys tells him he had to be sure eddard could be trusted.
he calls eddard an honorable and true man , maybe the only one in the city. he also confirms that jon arryn was assassinated with a poison called the tears of lys because he started asking questions . arya is chasing cats in accordance with her sword training. she chases one into the dungeons under the castle , where she finds the great dragon skulls of the targaryens in storage. she hears two men varys and magister illyrio mopatis of pentos talking. varys says that events have been set in motion and the lion and the wolf will soon be at each other's throats. war is almost upon the seven kingdoms , as they planned , but it has come too soon. khal drogo will not invade westeros until his son is born and pronounced healthy , which is still many months away. illyrio suggests assassinating eddard to forestall the war , but varys refuses.
 sandor , ser gregor and ser loras at the tournament.
afterwards , varys finds littlefinger in the great hall staring at the iron throne. varys reveals that he knows about littlefinger's assistance in eddard's investigation of jon arryn's death and reminds littlefinger of the consequences that may befall him should the lannisters discover his involvement. in response , littlefinger reveals that he already knows about varys having met with both eddard and illyrio just earlier that day , implying he knows of varys' allegiances across the narrow sea. their conversation is interrupted by renly , who informs them that robert will be joining them at their small council meeting.
arya escapes from the dungeon and tries to warn her father about what she overheard but she gets the words muddled up. they are interrupted by yoren , who has ridden non stop from the crossroads inn to bring eddard forewarning of catelyn's arrest of tyrion lannister. eddard keeps the information to himself , while arya asks jory cassel about the state of her father's household guard. jory tells her she does not have to worry about her father's safety.
at the meeting of the small council , king robert tells eddard that daenerys targaryen is pregnant and her son will have a claim to the iron throne. he wants daenerys , the unborn child , and viserys dead as soon as possible. .
 varys secretly meets illyrio under the red keep.
eddard states that this act would be dishonorable , cowardly , and beneath their dignity. the other members of the council pycelle , renly , littlefinger and varys all concur that daenerys must die for the good of the realm. king robert orders eddard to enact the order. he refuses and resigns as the hand of the king , to robert's utter disbelief and fury.
eddard orders his household to begin packing. as eddard is packing , littlefinger arrives and offers to take eddard to the last place jon arryn went before he fell ill . eddard agrees.
ser loras and lord renly , who are lovers , meet in a bedchamber. renly complains as robert is organizing a hunt in the kingswood , which will no doubt involve traipsing around the forest for a couple of weeks in the cold and rain waiting to kill some animal. loras urges renly to claim the crown himself , offering him the allegiance of his rich and powerful family. renly dismisses the notion , since he is fourth in line to the iron throne. loras points out that joffrey is a monster , that tommen is only eight and laughs at the notion of robert and renly's other brother , lord stannis , ever becoming king , as he has the charisma and personality of a lobster. he also asserts that the people love renly and want to serve him because he is kind and doesn't revel in violence as his brothers do.
queen cersei and robert share a rare drink and discussion about the targaryen threat. surprisingly , cersei takes eddard's side , pointing out that the dothraki cannot cross the narrow sea as they have no ships. .
 ser loras urges renly to consider his place in the line of succession.
robert agrees , but if they land and the knights of westeros take shelter behind their castle walls , the dothraki could simply burn and pillage their way up and down the continent until the smallfolk accept viserys as their king regardless. cersei suggests that the unified armies of the seven kingdoms could defeat them but robert says she underestimates the skill and ability of one army with one leader and one purpose as compared to that of the scattered and patchwork armies of westeros. their discussion moves to lyanna stark , which surprises robert , as in seventeen years cersei has never asked about her. he tells her that lyanna's death left in him a void that seven kingdoms could not fill. he also tells her that their marriage never had a chance of success because of the hold lyanna's memory has on him , and bitterly adds he can barely remember what she looked like. cersei says that she felt something for robert once , even after they lost their first boy , for quite a while. she asks robert if there was ever any chance for their marriage and he answers no .
littlefinger brings eddard stark to the last place jon arryn went before falling ill , which is one of littefinger's brothels. there eddard meets another one of robert's bastards , this time a girl , and her mother , a blond whore named mhaegen. mhaegen remarks that her child has robert's nose and black hair. eddard asks littlefinger why jon arryn was searching for robert's bastards but he says he doesn't know , offering the half hearted guess that maybe robert suddenly took paternal interest in them. eddard looks skeptical of that reason.
leaving the brothel , eddard , jory cassel , and the two guards that accompanied them are confronted by a large group of lannister guardsmen led by ser jaime lannister. jaime has heard of tyrion's arrest and demands an explanation. eddard says that tyrion was arrested on his orders. .
 eddard is stabbed through the leg by a lannister guardsman.
jaime threatens to kill eddard but eddard points out that if he does , tyrion will die as well. jaime acknowledges that this is true , so he says he will settle for killing eddard's men instead. there is a brief engagement in which eddard's two guards , heward and wyl , are killed by lannister spearmen. in response , ned and jory fight and kill five of the lannister soldiers. jory engages jaime but is quickly killed when jaime stabs him through the eye with a dagger. furious , eddard crosses swords with jaime. jaime is shocked and then exhilarated when the older ned is not as easily defeated as he expected. however , jaime gradually starts to grow worried as ned's high level of skill becomes apparent. just as they are ready to clash again , a lannister guardsman steps in and stabs eddard through the leg with a spear , disabling him. jaime is annoyed at the dishonorable interruption and knocks out the guardsman. he departs , telling eddard he wants his brother back.
 the wolf and the lion is the fifth episode of the first season of game of thrones and the fifth episode of the series overall. it first aired on may 15 , 2011. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by brian kirk.
tyrion's predicament becomes common knowledge in king's landing , making life difficult for eddard stark. ned's position is already precarious due to a disagreement with king robert baratheon over plans to assassinate daenerys before she can rally the dothraki to invade westeros. in the eyrie , catelyn is shocked by her sister lysa's paranoia and distrust.

<A Golden Crown>

 in the crownlands.
lord eddard stark wakes up after a long period of unconsciousness , due to the injuries inflicted on him by jaime lannister's men. he finds both king robert baratheon and queen cersei waiting. .
 king robert's hunting party.
cersei is furious with eddard's acts in having her brother tyrion arrested and attacking jaime in the street. she wants robert to take action against him , but robert refuses to condemn him without hearing eddard's side , and tells her to be silent. when cersei protests further , and calls robert a woman , he hits her. she says that she will wear the bruise with honor. he tells her to be silent , or he will honor her again , and cersei leaves in anger. afterwards , robert restores eddard to his position as king's hand , and tells him not to quit again , or he will give the position to jaime lannister. he tells lord eddard to end the animosity between house stark and house lannister , as strife between these two powerful houses could lead them into war. he is leaving on a hunt and wants the realm at peace by the time he returns.
arya has another dancing lesson with syrio forel , but isn't in the mood due to jory's death. syrio tells her that she may need to fight at any time , not just when she's in the mood. he wisely reminds her that being prepared to fight is more important in times of sadness than in peaceful times of happiness.
king robert is out hunting , accompanied by his brother renly , ser barristan selmy and lancel lannister. robert , being supplied with wine by lancel , becomes drunk and nostalgic , longing for the days of young knights trying to make a name for themselves and when enemies stood openly in opposition instead of being hidden schemers . robert brags about all the women he has bedded , but renly becomes irate when he begins to question him about his history with women. renly calls him a fool and remarks that the past had its share of violence that robert is conveniently ignoring. renly storms off , leaving ser barristan to look on concerned , as lancel keeps up king robert's wine supply.
in king's landing , at a meeting of the small council , a group of refugees come to tell of how their villages have been destroyed. eddard hears tales of a huge knight ravaging the riverlands. he realizes that it's ser gregor clegane , the mountain , who is likely under lannister orders to punish the riverlands which are held by house tully , the former house of his wife catelyn , who now holds tyrion captive. even though king robert told him to make peace with the lannisters , lord eddard could not bring himself to let this injustice stand. eddard strips gregor clegane of his knighthood , land , and titles , and sends lord beric dondarrion with a retinue of one hundred knights to arrest and execute him in the king's name. .
 eddard discovers the secret jon arryn died for.
he also orders grand maester pycelle to send word to casterly rock , demanding lord tywin lannister's presence in court to explain his bannerman's actions or be branded an enemy of the crown and a traitor to the realm. 'littlefinger' petyr baelish , and grand maester pycelle are both concerned with the harshness of these orders and eddard's actions against the lannisters , but eddard wants to see justice done.
prince joffrey comes to apologize to sansa for the incident on the kingsroad. he calls her his lady love and gives her a necklace. sansa forgives him , and they seem reconciled. sansa is unaware that the queen put joffrey up to the apology some time ago.
eddard decides to send his daughters back to winterfell. arya is worried that she must leave syrio. sansa protests that no one cares about her trivial dancing instructor , they are talking about breaking her betrothal to joffrey. lord eddard says that he will find someone else for her. sansa refuses she is going to marry joffrey and have lots of golden haired babies. this gives eddard pause and sends him back to the book that jon arryn was looking at before he died. consulting the book's entry on house baratheon , lord eddard finds that every time a baratheon has married , the children have had black hair right up to cersei and robert's children , who are all blond.
 in the north.
stiv and osha accost bran near winterfell.
in winterfell , bran has another dream about the three eyed raven , in which it flies into the castle's crypts. he wakes up to find that hodor has brought the finished saddle designed by tyrion. he goes on a ride with robb and theon. they have had word from king's landing about eddard's injury , jory's death and tyrion's capture. theon thinks that robb should prepare the north for war , but robb is determined to make his own decision for when that time has come , and until then will follow his parents' orders to remain in winterfell. they discover that bran has wandered off on his horse and go looking for him. robb finds a group of wildlings threatening bran and trying to steal his horse. robb kills two , but another wildling holds bran with a knife to the throat. theon shoots him from behind , angering robb by endangering bran. the remaining wildling , a woman named osha , yields and begs for her life. robb agrees to take her as a prisoner.
 theon tells ros he will miss her as she leaves for king's landing.
ros , the prostitute that theon frequently sees , is departing winterfell for king's landing on the back of a turnip cart. theon stops her and unsuccessfully tries to persuade her to stay. she explains that war is now imminent and the men and thus her customer base of winterfell are destined to leave soon and probably never return her departure is thus an economically essential decision. he throws her a coin to get her to raise her skirt one last time. as she rides off he says that he will miss her. she agrees that he will. tyrion's verbal skills are wasted on mord.
 in the vale.
at the eyrie , tyrion almost rolls out of his sky cell in his sleep , to his consternation. he tries to make a bargain with the gaoler , mord , to no avail.
tyrion convinces mord to carry a message to lady lysa arryn and , in exchange , he will give mord the gold he had with him when he was captured. lysa summons tyrion , believing that the sky cell has broken his spirit , but all he confesses to is being a liar , a whoremonger , and a player of practical jokes. he maintains his innocence of the crimes of conspiracy to commit murder.
 tyrion on trial in the eyrie.
however , tyrion uses the opportunity of his audience in front of lysa's court to publicly demand his right to justice and a trial , and lysa is shamed into agreeing. given that lysa's son is a young boy and wouldn't make a good judge in a formal trial , tyrion instead demands a trial by combat , which lysa also reluctantly agrees is his right. given that neither lysa nor her young son can fight in a trial by combat , she asks for a volunteer to be her champion , and ser vardis egen agrees. egen is unwilling to fight tyrion however , as killing such an outmatched opponent would be dishonourable. tyrion names his own champion his brother jaime , considered one of the best swordsmen in the realm. at this lysa does object , as jaime is not present and she does not want to wait. she demands that he pick a champion from those present. tyrion desperately asks for volunteers , and after a long pause during which it seems that tyrion's cause is lost , the sellsword bronn steps forward and says he will stand for him. bronn kicks ser vardis egen's corpse out of the moon door.
bronn fights defensively , waiting for vardis to tire , as unlike bronn he is dressed in full armor. bronn finally gets his chance he first wounds and then kills vardis , sending his body rolling out of the moon door that leads to a thousand foot drop. lysa complains that bronn did not fight with honor. bronn agrees , but indicates that vardis did fight with honor. tyrion has proven his innocence in the eyes of the gods. he retrieves his gold from ser rodrik and gives it to mord. when robin asks if he can make the little man fly now , tyrion says , this little man is going home. bronn and tyrion are allowed to depart.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
daenerys and one of her dragon eggs.
in vaes dothrak , daenerys targaryen is studying her dragon eggs. despite illyrio's claim that they are now only stone , she ponders if they might be hatched by extreme heat , and places an egg on a brazier. nothing happens , to her disappointment. she is removing the egg from the brazier , when irri comes in and thinks she will scald herself. irri takes the egg from her , but daenerys is completely unharmed , and it is irri who suffers scalding burns on her own hands.
daenerys is summoned by the crones who rule the city , the dosh khaleen , the wives of khals slain in battle. she eats a stallion's heart and the crones read the omens. at first it seems dany won't keep the raw meat down , but , to both her and drogo's relief , she is able to compose herself. the crones declare daenerys and drogo's son will be the stallion that mounts the world , a great conqueror whose coming is long foretold in dothraki history. daenerys says his name will be rhaego , for her brother rhaegar , slain by the usurper robert baratheon. viserys is not impressed and rather disgusted by it all. he stands with ser jorah who explains the ritual to him. it is only when the dothraki are chanting rhaego's name , and drogo lifts daenerys up and carries her about the room , that viserys realizes they love her. .
 jorah mormont prevents viserys from stealing dany's eggs.
he storms out of the tent. viserys is later discovered in daenerys' tent by ser jorah mormont , trying to steal dany's dragon eggs , but jorah won't let him. viserys tells ser jorah that to rule one must be feared or loved , and he has never been loved as the dothraki love dany. he says he knows that jorah wants daenerys , but he doesn't care. he just wants the eggs so he can hire an army , but he can't get past ser jorah and must leave the eggs. mormont watches him as he leaves.
drunk , bitter and angry , viserys interrupts a feast for daenerys and drogo. he angrily demands his payment in return for giving daenerys to drogo. then he draws his sword , which is considered an offense punishable by death in the sacred city , and threatens dany and the unborn child , while irri translates to drogo. .
 khal drogo gives viserys a golden crown.
drogo responds that he will give viserys a golden crown that men will tremble to behold , and viserys is pleased until drogo's bloodrider qotho breaks his arm , making him drop the sword , and kicks him to the floor. drogo melts his golden belt in a pot , while viserys begs daenerys to help him. ser jorah tells her to look away , but she won't. she watches as khal drogo crowns viserys by pouring molten gold over his head , causing viserys to cry out in pure agony. as daenerys watches her brother die , she coldly states that , having been killed by fire , viserys was no true dragon.
 a golden crown is the sixth episode of the first season of game of thrones. it is the sixth episode of the series overall. it first aired on may 22 , 2011. it was written by jane espenson , david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by daniel minahan.
in vaes dothrak , viserys' frustrations at the constant delays before he can receive his crown boil over. in king's landing , while king robert goes on a hunt , eddard issues a decree that could splinter the seven kingdoms and makes a startling discovery about the heirs to the throne. in the eyrie , tyrion lannister wagers everything on the greed of the sellsword bronn.

<You Win or You Die>

 at the lannister camp.
on the borders of the riverlands , lord tywin lannister has assembled an army of sixty thousand men , with which he plans to oppose the starks and punish catelyn's capture of his son tyrion lannister. .
 tywin discusses the future of house lannister with his son jaime.
as he stands in his tent skinning a dead stag , he tells his elder son , jaime , that this conflict will decide the fate of their family they will either forge a dynasty that will last a thousand years or cease to exist , as the targaryens had done. he orders jaime to become the man he was meant to be , and to take thirty thousand men and besiege riverrun , catelyn's childhood home and the seat of house tully. jaime ponders why tywin would risk so much for the ugly , stunted son that he hates , but to tywin a lannister is a lannister even though he considers tyrion the least worthy member of their family , any affront to their family must be punished or it makes them look weak.
 in the north.
theon attempts to intimidate osha.
in winterfell , theon greyjoy attempts to bully osha , the wildling woman captured in the recent raid. he insists that she refer to him as my lord , but she is unimpressed with his antics. she points out that he is not entitled to this , as his father is still alive. maester luwin dismisses theon and questions osha about why her band crossed the wall and were fleeing as far south as south goes . she claims that the white walkers have awoken after a millennia asleep and are coming south , to luwin's skepticism.
 at the wall.
jon snow and samwell tarly are standing watch atop the wall when benjen's horse is spotted returning , but , to jon's horror , there is no sign of benjen himself.
later on , lord commander jeor mormont names the trainees as men of the night's watch. he hands out assignments , but to jon's disgust he is being sent to the stewards , not the rangers. he will work directly for the lord commander as his personal steward. his attempts to plead his case to maester aemon who has selected samwell as his own steward are met with indifference. however , sam suggests to jon that while this move was possibly orchestrated by ser alliser thorne to punish jon , it is also an opportunity for the lord commander to groom jon directly for command. both are then surprised when pypar admits that he was sent to the watch for refusing to give sexual favors to a lord , not for stealing a wheel of cheese to feed his sister as he had previously claimed. nothing about being sent to the wall is fair. .
 jon snow and samwell tarly swear their oaths to the night's watch.
convinced , jon , along with sam , say their oath of fealty to the night's watch in front of a heart tree just inside the eaves of the haunted forest and are acknowledged as men of the watch. sam decided to take the oath with jon to the old gods of the forest , as the seven gods his father worshiped have never seemed to answer him. after they take their oaths , ghost finds a severed hand in the woods and brings it back to jon and a horrified sam.
 across the narrow sea.
daenerys tries to convince drogo to invade westeros.
 the wine seller is captured after trying to poison daenerys. in vaes dothrak , daenerys attempts to convince khal drogo about the benefits of an invasion of the seven kingdoms , but drogo is reluctant to cross the narrow sea , despite the thousands of ships they could find in the free cities to do the job. he says that a man doesn't need an iron chair but only a horse. daenerys travels to the marketplace with ser jorah mormont and her handmaidens. she asks jorah to help convince her husband since the seven kingdoms are hers by birthright but he reminds her that her ancestor aegon the conqueror took six of the seven kingdoms , because he was capable of doing so due to his dragons , nothing more. jorah is delivered a message from varys , a royal pardon for his crimes he quickly realizes that this news would only come if he was no longer needed as a spy. seeing daenerys with a wineseller who is keen for her to try a particular vintage from the arbor , jorah realizes that the wine has been poisoned this is the assassination attempt. having second thoughts , he steps in and stops daenerys from drinking it. the wineseller attempts to flee , but rakharo brings him down with a bolo tangling his ankles.
with the wine seller captured , ser jorah tells daenerys that robert baratheon will never stop trying to kill her and her future children. drogo quickly arrives in the tent. he glares at the seller and then goes to daenerys to ensure she is okay , before offering jorah the reward of any horse he chooses for foiling the assassination. angered , he begins to yell out in dothraki that his army will cross the poison water as no khalasar has done before and take the iron throne for his son. drogo's khalasar departs vaes dothrak the next morning , with the wine seller tied naked to the saddle of daenerys' horse , forced to walk until he eventually falls of exhaustion and is dragged to his death.
 in king's landing.
lord eddard stark meets with cersei lannister. he tells her that he knows the secret that jon arryn died for that cersei's three children are not robert's , but the product of incest between her and jaime. cersei does not deny the charge and in fact is proud of it , comparing their love to the old targaryen practice of marrying brother to sister she also admits to having despised robert ever since their wedding night , when robert drunkenly stumbled into cersei's bed and called her lyanna . eddard angrily tells her to take her children and leave the city immediately. when robert returns from his hunt , he will tell him the truth of the matter and cersei should run as far as she can before that happens , lest robert's wrath find her.
cersei icily calls ned a fool for turning down the throne himself after the sack of king's landing. eddard tells her that he has regrets , but that isn't one of them. cersei departs with a chilling warning when you play the game of thrones , you win or you die. there is no middle ground.
in one of his brothels , littlefinger instructs the newly arrived ros and another prostitute , armeca , on how to please their customers and make them happy. when they ask him to join them , he refuses , saying that he only ever had eyes for one woman. he tells them about his past , how he loved and fought a duel for a woman. he lost and subsequently realized that he could never beat those in power by honorable means , as they would never let him compete on equal terms. when ros asks him what he wants , he says , oh , everything. .
 robert baratheon signs a document confirming eddard stark as protector of the realm. renly finds eddard and tells him that robert has been badly mauled by a boar and is not expected to survive. eddard finds robert telling joffrey that he wishes he could have been a better father to him. eddard chooses not to tell robert about his discoveries to spare his final hours from pain. robert instructs eddard to take a letter naming him as the lord protector of the realm , to rule until joffrey comes of age. eddard does not write joffrey's name , instead saying the rightful heir . robert also asks him to cancel the attempt on daenerys targaryen's life. leaving the chamber , eddard talks to varys , who slyly points out that lancel lannister ensured the king kept refreshed with alcohol during the hunt , meaning his reactions were slowed and unreliable. varys also says it is far too late to stop the attempt on daenerys' life.
 the letter ned sends to stannis baratheon , informing him of his findings.
at king's landing , renly confronts eddard and offers him a hundred swords to take the queen and her children into custody , but eddard refuses to dishonor robert's last hours by shedding blood in the red keep and taking frightened children hostage. renly suggests that he could make a good king , but eddard angrily points out that stannis is renly's older brother and the true heir. in his study he writes a letter laying out his findings to lord stannis and instructs a courier to take the message to dragonstone , stannis's island fortress. littlefinger then arrives and talks to eddard , who tells him the truth about joffrey's parentage. littlefinger suggests that they keep quiet , acknowledge joffrey as king and make him their puppet. if he proves intractable , they can reveal the truth and crown the more malleable renly instead. eddard considers this treason. littlefinger realizes that even though lord eddard has robert's edict naming him regent and protector of the realm , he doesn't have the men he needs to seize control from cersei. he needs the loyalty of the city watch. littlefinger understands that the honorable eddard stark can't come right out and ask him to bribe them , but agrees to do what needs to be done.
 eddard stark confronts king joffrey in the throne room.
in king's landing , eddard is summoned to the throne room by king joffrey robert has died. he arrives to find littlefinger and varys waiting for him , along with commander janos slynt and a detachment of the city watch. varys tells him that renly has fled the city , along with ser loras tyrell and a number of retainers. they were last seen heading south. the party enters the throne room , where joffrey sits on the iron throne. he demands oaths of fealty from his councilors and subjects. instead , eddard gives ser barristan selmy the proclamation naming him as lord protector of the realm. to barristan's shock , cersei takes the paper shield and tears it up. instead , she suggests that eddard bend the knee and swear allegiance. in return he will be allowed to return to winterfell. eddard responds that joffrey has no claim to the iron throne and commands slynt to take the queen and her son into custody. instead , the city watch kill eddard's bodyguards and littlefinger holds a knife to his throat , saying , i did warn you not to trust me.
 you win or you die is the seventh episode of the first season of game of thrones. it is the seventh episode of the series overall. it first aired on 29 may 2011 , but some hbo subscribers were able to see it a week early on the hbo go digital platform. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by daniel minahan.
the lannister army , poised to invade the riverlands.

<The Pointy End>

 at the wall.
jon and sam return to castle black with their party and two dead bodies in tow. the two corpses are identified as members of benjen stark's missing ranging party , jafer flowers and othor. though the deceased appear to have been dead for some time , sam astutely notes that the bodies do not smell like they have been rotting. jon and several other sworn brothers urge lord commander jeor mormont to burn the bodies , but he refuses , wanting maester aemon to examine them.
jon is summoned to mormont's chambers as news has arrived of eddard's arrest and imprisonment. after being given the letter to read for himself , a speechless jon attempts to leave before mormont reminds him of the oath he has sworn to the night's watch. when jon expresses concern for his sisters , mormont replies he is sure they are unharmed , though jon is doubtful.
later on , alliser thorne taunts jon that his father is a traitor , calling him , not just a bastard , a traitor's bastard. jon angrily charges at him with a knife and thorne is only saved by grenn and pyp holding jon back. commander mormont witnessed the incident and confines jon to quarters for his trouble. that night , jon is aroused by a whining ghost scratching at the door. sensing trouble , jon and his direwolf head to the lord commander's chambers where jon is confronted by a wight , the reanimated corpse of the dead night's watchman. though jon is able to stab the wight through the chest with his sword , the wight simply removes the sword and is unharmed. mormont appears , seeking out the commotion. jon grabs mormont's oil lamp and throws it at the wight , finally destroying it.
the morning after , the two wight bodies have been thoroughly burned. sam says he read in a book that the dead are animated by the touch of the white walkers and only fire can destroy such creatures. he hopes the wall is big enough to hold them back when the walkers come in force.
 in the vale.
at the eyrie , catelyn is furious with lysa first for lysa not immediately notifying her about eddard's arrest and second for refusing to consider summoning the knights of the vale to war. despite setting in motion this chain of events with her letter to her sister regarding the murder of jon arryn , lysa does not believe that war is in the vale's best interests and rather want the knights to stay in the vale to protect her son and their lord.
tyrion and bronn have reached the western edge of the vale and are surrounded by members of the hill tribes , led by a fearsome warrior named shagga. at first he orders them to be killed , but tyrion does some fast talking and convinces the hill tribes that house lannister is an enemy of the house arryn and its rulers. he proposes an alliance which will allow the tribes to enact vengeance against house arryn and take ownership of the lands of the vale. they eagerly agree , and escort tyrion and bronn westwards towards where the lannister armies are gathering.
 in the north.
dozens of ravens leaving winterfell , summoning the banners of the north to war.
robb receives a letter from sansa in king's landing , asking him to pledge fealty to king joffrey. maester luwin correctly deduces the letter is actually the work of the queen. robb refuses to consider the request and sends out ravens , summoning the lords bannermen of the north and their armies to assemble at winterfell. released ravens fill the sky.
at winterfell , robb holds a feast for several of his newly arrived bannermen. jon umber assumes that he will lead the vanguard , and is offended by the suggestion that he would be made to march behind a glover , threatening to withdraw from the host. in response , robb promises that , after the conflict with the lannisters , he will oust greatjon from his keep and hang him for breaking his oaths to house stark when the enraged bannerman goes to draw a weapon , robb's direwolf grey wind sets upon him , biting off two of his fingers. robb recites 'that it is death to bear steel against your liege lord' but then diffuses the situation by excusing greatjon's aggression , saying that 'doubtless , the greatjon only meant to cut my meat for me'. the greatjon roars with laughter and accepts robb's commands , much to the shock of bran , who witnessed the entire incident. robb says farewell to bran and to rickon , who is convinced he'll see neither robb nor his parents again.
bran prays by the heart tree when he is approached by osha who tells him the old gods of the forest are listening to him and that the wildlings also worship the old gods. she laments that the south has lost touch with the past the southern weirwoods were cut down years ago and the southerners have no idea what's awakening in the north. they are interrupted by hodor who was bathing and has forgotten to put his clothes back on , and osha remarks that he might have giant blood in him before bran sends him away. curious , bran asks her if giants live beyond the wall. she affirms they do , as well has many other beings , though not all of them are friendly. she asserts that the army robb has gathered should be marching north , not south.
catelyn and ser rodrik cassel intercept robb's army in the neck as it presses southwards. robb initially exclaims with excitement upon seeing his mother , but stops short of embracing her lest he look weak in front of his bannermen. catelyn looks at her son with understanding , later embracing once their liege lords have left their tent. she tells robb he has no choice but to go to war. however , he cannot lose , for the sake of ned , sansa , and arya , as if he is defeated , tywin lannister will show their family no mercy.
later on , robb and his lords are debating on the route of their march , and on whether to march directly against tywin's army or against jaime's army besieging riverrun. to get to jaime , they need to cross the green fork of the river trident , and the only crossing is at the twins , held by the notoriously prickly and easily offended lord walder frey. a lannister scout is captured , and robb sends him back to warn lord tywin that twenty thousand northern soldiers are marching against him.
 at the lannister camp.
kevan and tywin lannister greet tyrion and his companions. tyrion , bronn , shagga and the rest of the hill tribesmen arrive at the lannister encampment , to find lord tywin lannister and his brother , ser kevan , planning to engage the stark army , which is moving south from the neck. tywin shows no sign of relief that his son is alive. tywin accepts the aid of the hill tribesmen , but shagga will only fight if tyrion fights alongside them , a prospect which tywin welcomes and terrifies tyrion.
 across the narrow sea.
khal drogo disciplines mago. daenerys notes drogo's injury. in essos , khal drogo having taken an oath to take the iron throne , has begun his march of conquest to the narrow sea. the dothraki raid a village in lhazar , a peaceful country to the south east of vaes dothrak. to finance the war to come , they must raid villages and take people to sell into slavery , thereby gaining the money to hire ships for the khalasar to assault westeros. ser jorah and others try to explain this to daenerys , but she is disturbed to see the aftermath , the dothraki killing the villagers and raping their women , and orders it stopped. the dothraki grow angry at not being able to take the spoils of victory , as that is the dothraki way. she starts claiming all the women they see to protect them. the angry warriors take their complaints to khal drogo , but he is amused at his wife's fierceness. he tells them that daenerys may keep the women she has claimed , they can find others. one man won't listen , and angrily accuses drogo of being slave to a foreign whore. khal drogo stops the complaints by killing mago , the offended warrior who challenges him. drogo takes a deep wound to the chest in the process. though drogo dismisses it as a scratch , daenerys insists it be treated and allows one of the women she rescued , a healer called mirri maz duur to treat the wound , despite the distaste of drogo's bloodriders , who derisively call the woman maegi a witch .
 in king's landing.
lannister soldiers complete their purge of the stark guards and household staff. sansa and septa mordane hear sounds of fighting. when they are confronted by lannister guardsmen led by sandor clegane , septa mordane tells sansa to run and lock herself in her room while she stays to confront them. however , sandor later finds and takes sansa into custody. .
 syrio forel confronts ser meryn trant and lannister guards.
more lannister guardsmen , this time led by ser meryn trant of the kingsguard , interrupt a dancing lesson between syrio forel and arya. syrio holds arya back , questioning why lord eddard would send lannister men to find arya. she then refuses to go with them , and when they try to force the issue syrio disarms and disables all of the lightly armored guardsmen with his wooden practice sword. he tells arya to run as he faces down trant , noting that for himself , the first sword of braavos does not run. syrio's fate after this is unclear.
arya runs to the stables where the men waiting with their baggage were supposed to be to take them to the ship for winterfell. the men are dead , but she finds her real sword , needle , in the bottom of her trunk. arya then starts to leave the stables. arya knows how to get out of the red keep via the tunnel under the castle that she found when she was chasing cats and followed the two conspirators . when a stableboy tries to grab her , arya turns around brandishing needle and accidentally runs him through and kills him. horrified , she flees.
varys visits eddard stark in his cell in the dungeons. he is incredulous that eddard trusted littlefinger over him , and even more so that he warned cersei what he was going to do. eddard says he wanted to extend mercy to cersei's children , whom robert would have killed if he'd known the truth. varys bluntly tells eddard that his mercy is what killed king robert , to eddard's shame. varys then tells him that catelyn also no longer holds tyrion as her prisoner , meaning that the starks have nothing to barter with for eddard's life. when eddard suggests they should just kill him , varys says not today , my lord. as he departs , eddard asks varys who he truly serves varys , in a rare display of honesty , replies the realm , my lord. someone must.
cersei and the remainder of the small council , comprised of grand maester pycelle , varys , and littlefinger , summon sansa to inform her that her father has been arrested for treason. they manipulate sansa into writing a letter to her brother robb , asking him to bend the knee peacefully to joffrey. they add that eddard's fate may depend on what his son and the other northern lords do. sansa agrees to write the letter.
later on , king joffrey holds court in the red keep. janos slynt , commander of the city watch , is to be made lord of harrenhal as a reward for his loyal service. cersei then dismisses ser barristan selmy as head of the kingsguard , noting that the time has come for an honorable retirement. selmy is confused , pointing out that kingsguard serve for life , but joffrey angrily says that selmy is too old , and couldn't protect his father. selmy's disgrace is only compounded when he learns his post as lord commander is to be given to jaime lannister , much to his disgust. varys announces that selmy is to be given a castle and land in recognition of his years of service , but the old knight , insulted by what he sees as being offered a hall to die in and men to bury me , takes off his armor , throws his sword at joffrey's feet and storms out , stating that he could still kill all five of the other kingsguard present with ease.
sansa begs joffrey for her father's life , claiming that the medicine he was taking for his injured leg was responsible for his treasonous talk. joffrey says that her sweet words have moved him and he will spare eddard , if he bends the knee to him and acknowledges him as king. sansa says he will.
 the pointy end is the eighth episode of the first season of game of thrones. it is the eighth episode of the series overall. it first aired on june 5 , 2011. it was written by executive producer george r.r. martin and directed by daniel minahan.
in the aftermath of ned s capture , syrio and arya face off against lannister guards , while cersei manipulates sansa to her own ends. robb rallies his father s northern bannermen against tywin lannister and heads south to war. tyrion forms an uneasy alliance with the hill tribes and reunites with his father. jon lashes out at ser alliser thorne and battles a mysterious attacker from beyond the wall. dany is forced to reconcile her desire to conquer westeros with drogo s savagery after the dothraki raid a peaceful village.

<Baelor>

 in the riverlands.
theon and robb outside the twins. robb's army has reached the twins , the heavily fortified crossing over the green fork of trident river. theon greyjoy shoots down messenger ravens , so no word of their presence can be relayed , but finds nothing more but messages to extended family members. to enter the castle would be perilous for robb , so catelyn stark enters to negotiate their crossing the river.
though held by house frey , bannermen to catelyn stark's father , lord walder frey has not yet taken up arms. when called up , he says he had been preparing to march , and was just waiting for all his forces to arrive. in reality , he waited to see which side was winning before deciding whether to get involved. now , as the tully's army has been defeated and riverrun is held by the lannisters , he wants to know why he should be helping robb and taking up arms against the king. after some hard bargaining between catelyn and walder , they strike a deal the freys will join robb's cause , allow him to cross and commit troops to his army , but in return both robb and arya must each marry one of walder's own children. robb agrees , though noting that arya won't like it. robb must also take olyvar frey as a squire.
the lannister armies prepare for battle. tywin tells his son tyrion that he means to use the hill tribe forces to give them an edge against the stark army , essentially to be used as cannon fodder. he orders tyrion to lead them from the front of the vanguard. tyrion angrily accuses his father of trying to kill him. he storms back to his tent to find that bronn has found him , as per instruction , a whore named shae. tyrion takes an immediate liking to her. when told they go into battle in the vanguard in the morning , bronn goes off to find one for himself.
tyrion , bronn , and shae play a drinking game the night before the battle. tyrion makes observations and if he is correct the person has to drink. he guesses correctly that bronn has been beyond the wall and killed someone before he was twelve years old though it was a woman , not a man , and he killed her in self defense , because she was coming at him with an axe . tyrion guesses that shae's mother was a whore , her father deserted them , and she is low born however he is wrong on each guess. tyrion cannot read shae's personality , but this only makes her more intriguing to him. when shae starts to question tyrion , bronn reveals that he heard tyrion was once married. reluctantly , tyrion explains that when he was very young , he and jaime were out riding near casterly rock and found a young common girl in distress from bandits. while jaime chased the bandits off , tyrion comforted the girl , whose name was tysha. they ended up getting drunk at a local inn , and she became so enamored of him that tyrion felt like he wasn't an ugly dwarf. later that night she had sex with tyrion , the first time he was ever with a woman. tyrion fell madly in love , and bribed a drunken septon to marry them in secret. .
however , two weeks later his father tywin found out , and was utterly furious that his son had married a commoner. tywin forced jaime to reveal the truth the girl was a prostitute and jaime set the situation up to do something nice for his little brother. tywin then instructed his guards to have sex with her , with her being paid a silver coin for each man , while tyrion was forced to watch. shae points out that tyrion was foolish to believe a woman would sleep with him just hours after almost being raped. as she gets romantic with tyrion , bronn leaves the tent. tyrion lannister leads the hill tribes into battle. the next morning the lannister army finds that the starks have stolen a march on them they are about to be attacked and have to hastily prepare for battle. tyrion gives a rousing speech to his hill tribesmen , but as they charge for the front he is first nearly trampled and then knocked out by an accidental blow to the head from someone's club. when he regains consciousness on the back of a wagon , bronn tells him that the lannisters won the battle , but it was a feint. as a diversion , robb sent a small portion of his army to confront and delay tywin's forces , while the main army marched on riverrun to attack jaime's army. jaime is captured by robb's army. robb stark after his victory.
catelyn and ser rodrik cassel are waiting in woodlands as they hear sounds of battle. suddenly robb returns from his victory with his guards and a prisoner , jaime himself. the battle of the whispering wood has lifted the siege of riverrun , and jaime's army has been destroyed. jaime suggests they end the war now with a bout of single combat between himself and robb , but robb refuses and has him imprisoned. robb laments that his diversion sent 2 , 000 men to their deaths. he gives a speech to his army and tells them that they have won a great victory , but the war is far from over.
 at the wall.
jeor mormont gives his sword longclaw to jon snow. at castle black , lord commander jeor mormont gives jon snow a valyrian steel sword , longclaw , in thanks for saving his life. mormont also reinstates jon to his former position and tells him he has dispatched ser alliser thorne to king's landing to lay the hand of the wight they found at the feet of the king and ask for aid.
 maester aemon reveals his true identity.
mormont explains to jon that longclaw was meant for his own son , ser jorah mormont , but he disgraced himself and fled in exile to essos. jon goes to the dining hall and the other recruits make a fuss over the sword , but samwell tarly seems distant from the revelry. sam takes jon aside and informs him about robb leading an army south to war. jon ponders that he should be with him , but maester aemon tells him their duty to the night's watch comes first. to jon's surprise , aemon reveals that his full name is aemon targaryen , the son of a king , brother to another , the uncle of the mad king. aemon had to stand aside and do nothing while his entire family was butchered or exiled during robert's rebellion. it is not an easy life they have chosen. aemon remarks that he cannot make jon stay or go like the maester , jon must make the choice himself , and live with the consequences of it for the rest of his life.
 across the narrow sea.
drogo after his fall. far to the east , daenerys targaryen is concerned that the wound her husband khal drogo took fighting mago has festered and become infected. he falls from his horse , a grave sign of weakness amongst the dothraki. daenerys tells the khalasar that they are stopping and requests for qotho to get mirri maz duur to help drogo. qotho is unhappy with entrusting drogo's care to the woman , whom he calls a maegi or witch , but relents.
at daenerys' request , ser jorah armors himself. jorah also advises her to leave now , because drogo is certain to die and when he dies , his lieutenants will fight amongst themselves to be his successor whoever wins will kill daenerys's son , rather than risk the boy growing up to be a rival , but daenerys refuses to abandon her husband. mirri maz duur promises to save drogo's life , but she needs to sacrifice a life in exchange. she takes drogo's horse into his tent and starts the ceremony , slitting the animal's throat over drogo's comatose form. .
 jorah mormont helps daenerys.
some of drogo's warriors become enraged at what they see as daenerys' attempts to interfere with the natural way of things and qotho tries to attack her , but ser jorah kills him. daenerys starts to go into labor , but none of the dothraki midwives will help her , thinking she is cursed. with no choice , jorah takes daenerys into the tent as the ceremony continues.
 in king's landing.
varys visits eddard stark in the dungeons under the red keep. varys tells eddard that sansa begged for his life before the whole court and that robb is leading an army from the north. in addition , the queen is more concerned over the intentions of king robert's brother , stannis , a proven battle commander known to be without mercy. for the sake of sansa's life , varys urges eddard to confess to treason. in return , cersei will let him take the black and join his younger brother benjen and bastard son jon snow on the wall. eddard is angered by the suggestion that he would trade in his honesty and honor for his life , though he appears to have second thoughts when varys insinuates that sansa would pay the price for his defiance.
arya stark is living rough on the streets of the city. she catches a pigeon and tries to trade it for a slice of bread , to no avail. she sees crowds moving through the streets and is told that the hand of the king is being brought before the great sept of baelor , the center of religious worship in the city. stunned that she will see her father she drops the pigeon and joins the crowd. unable to see , she climbs unto the pedestal of a statue of baelor a previous targaryen king , baelor the blessed , for whom the sept is named . she sees her father being brought in chains to the steps of the temple. he sees arya on the statue , and as he is dragged through the crowd he passes yoren of the night's watch who had met arya . lord eddard looks at the statue and says , baelor , puzzling the crowd. yoren understands , however , and moves toward the statue where arya is watching.
eddard is given a chance to confess his crimes. he weighs his choices as he sees both arya and sansa present , and chooses to save them by making a false confession. he says that joffrey is the true king on the iron throne , pleasing him. grand maester pycelle extols the virtues of mercy and joffrey agrees that he could be merciful and send eddard to the night's watch as his mother has suggested and as sansa has begged. he instead acknowledges that as women they are soft and treason must never go unpunished. he commands ser ilyn payne to bring him the traitor's head. .
 ser ilyn payne executes eddard stark.
the crowd goes into an uproar. arya tries to make her way through the crowd drawing her sword to save her father , but yoren grabs and stops her , shielding her from seeing her father's death. sansa screams and is restrained by guards. a visibly horrified cersei frantically tries to persuade her son to reconsider , as does varys , but there is no time. forced to kneel , eddard looks at the statue and sees that arya has been rescued by yoren , and is relieved that she is safe. ser ilyn draws eddard's own sword , ice , and cuts his head off with a single blow. a flock of pigeons takes flight immediately afterwards , the sight being all arya needs to know her father is dead.
 baelor is the ninth episode of the first season of game of thrones. it is the ninth episode of the series overall. it first aired on june 12 , 2011. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by alan taylor.
with sansa s life in danger , ned makes a fateful decision. catelyn brokers an unsavory deal with the slippery walder frey. tyrion acquires a mistress and is forced by his father to fight on the front lines. robb wins his first major victory and captures a prized prisoner. jon is rewarded for his valor and discovers a dark secret about maester aemon. as khal drogo s wound festers , daenerys defies his bloodrider qotho and puts her trust in the enslaved witch mirri maz duur.

<Fire and Blood>

 in king's landing.
at the great sept of baelor , eddard stark has been executed by beheading the great sword ice is covered in blood , and sandor clegane standing next to ser ilyn payne , the royal executioner , holds lord eddard's head up to the adulation of the baying crowd. sansa stark has fainted. in the crowd , yoren drags arya away , making a point of calling her boy . once he gets her out of the courtyard , he cuts her hair off with a knife. he tells her that he will get her out of king's landing and to winterfell as a recruit of the night's watch , but he warns her not to trust the other recruits , since apparently half would hand her over to cersei for a pardon , while the other half would do the same , but only after raping her first.
joffrey is holding court and a singer is brought before him , charged with making up an amusing but offensive song about robert and cersei. the song says that the boar might have killed king robert , but the lion in his bed had previously castrated him. the singer turns out to be marillion , who catelyn and ser rodrik met at the inn at the crossroads , and who accompanied them and tyrion to the vale of arryn. joffrey asks marillion if he wants to keep his hands or tongue. marillion fearfully responds that everyone needs hands. joffrey commands ilyn payne to cut out the tongue instead. joffrey then takes sansa up to the walls to see her father's head and makes her look at it. he cruelly mocks her , promising he will give her robb's head next. sansa quietly retorts that robb might give her joffrey's instead. infuriated , joffrey orders ser meryn trant to beat her , as cersei has told him that a king should not hit his queen. sansa moves up behind joffrey , apparently preparing to shove him off the walkway to his death , but unexpectedly sandor clegane dabs the blood off her lip with a handkerchief and after joffrey leaves , tells her to give him what he wants.
 lancel and cersei.
cersei lannister has taken a new lover , her cousin lancel who was king robert's squire. she also receives a letter informing her of jaime's capture. lancel is naked in cersei's bedroom. the thought of being at war is exciting to him , as he has just been made a new young knight. he asks for the news of the war and asks what their next move is , but cersei tells him to shut up and get back in bed.
grand maester pycelle takes the prostitute ros to bed , revealing that he is actually far less frail than he appears. he boasts to ros of the several great kings he has served , lamenting first how aerys targaryen devolved from a charming young man into a paranoid lunatic obsessed with fire , how robert baratheon was a great soldier , but perhaps not so ideal a king , before displaying his sycophantic loyalty to joffrey.
 yoren and arya. yoren has assembled a band of new recruits for the night's watch. pretending that arya is a boy called arry , he has her join the group. also in the group are hot pie , lommy greenhands , and gendry , who unknown to him , is king robert's bastard son. he had been working for tobho mott , but with robert dead , the secret funds being sent to mott stopped , so he fired gendry and told him he had to join the night's watch. hot pie and lommy try to bully arya into giving up needle , but she angrily draws the sword , warning that she has already killed one fat boy and will happily do it again. gendry breaks up the argument by taking arya's side , threatening the boys with violence to keep them from picking on arya later. yoren now has to get them all to the wall , a thousand leagues away , through the war torn riverlands. they set out.
 in the north.
at winterfell , bran has another dream of the three eyed raven. he wakes up and tells osha about how the dream always ends with the bird flying into the crypts under the castle , and he tells her he thinks his father is in the tombs. osha takes bran down there , and bran tells her about the histories of some of the ancestors entombed there. they are then surprised by shaggydog , rickon's direwolf , who leaps out at them from the empty future tomb of eddard stark. rickon calls shaggydog off , then reveals to bran that he had the same dream. making their way out , osha is still trying to tell bran that it could be a coincidence , but outside they see maester luwin , who holds a letter and looks at them with such sadness that it is obviously the news of eddard's death.
 in the riverlands.
catelyn comforts her son , promising to avenge eddard's death at robb's camp , catelyn stoically walks through the encampment and receives the condolences and respect of the northern bannermen , who bow to her as she passes. she makes her way into the woods around the camp. once she is out of everyone's sight , she breaks down , practically hyperventilating with grief. hearing something from deeper in the woods , she finds robb hacking his sword at a tree in anger and grief. lady catelyn calls to him and tells him he is ruining his sword. robb drops the sword and falls into her arms , vowing to kill the lannisters who murdered his father. catelyn comforts him and promises him revenge , but only after they rescue sansa and arya first.
at robb's camp , robb and his bannermen debate what to do in the war against king joffrey. they debate whether to align with stannis or renly baratheon , but there is no agreement as renly has greater forces , but stannis is elder and next in line of succession if cersei's children are discounted . jon umber becomes irritated and questions why the northerners should be told what to do by rulers in the south at all , reminding them that the north was once independent of the other kingdoms before the targaryens threatened them with their dragons. with the dragons gone , umber declares there is only one king worthy of his respect and allegiance and bows before robb , calling out , the king in the north the other northern bannermen take up the cry and bow before the new king in the north , swearing fealty to robb.
catelyn visits the captive jaime lannister who taunts her about ned's death and offers to serve her as a lover. she hits him in the head with a rock. jaime says that if she keeps hitting him , she can kill him and that he doesn't fear death , though jaime probably realizes that the starks won't kill him as long as his sister holds sansa and arya hostage. catelyn tells him he has violated the laws of man and gods , and he asks where ned's gods were when his head was cut off he questions the existence of all gods , the old and the new . she says injustice in the world is because of men like him. jaime responds , there are no men like me , only me . he admits to pushing bran from the tower , but doesn't reveal why.
at the lannister camp , lord tywin is holding a strategy meeting with his generals , and is furious that jaime has been captured by the starks. both stannis and renly have claimed the iron throne , meaning the lannisters are now faced with fighting a two front war against the starks to the north and the baratheons to the south. tywin's commanders are uncertain what to do , arguing about whether to strike while they still can , fall back and raise reinforcement armies , or sue for peace. tyrion points out that any chance of negotiating with robb stark died when his father eddard was executed. the lannister army is now exposed , so tywin decides to retreat to harrenhal , the great castle on the northern shores of gods eye , and use it as a base of operations. reluctantly impressed by tyrion's astute judgment of the situation , tywin orders his son to go to king's landing and serve as acting hand of the king in tywin's stead. he is to bring cersei and joffrey to heel and prevent the young king from making more idiotic mistakes. tywin also tells him to deal with baelish , varys , and pycelle if he gets so much as a hint of treachery from any of them. he also orders tyrion to leave his whore behind. later on in his tent , tyrion complains about his father to shae , then decides to defy tywin and take shae to court anyway.
 at the wall.
jon snow learns of his father's death. he saddles a horse and prepares to leave to join robb's army , ignoring samwell's pleas to stay and fulfill his oaths. jon leaves castle black , but is pursued. one of his pursuers hits a tree branch and is unhorsed , and jon realizes it was sam. he turns back to help him. the other riders are grenn and pypar. he tells them to go back or they will get in trouble too , but they say they can't go back without him. they surround him and recite their oath to the night's watch , and jon realizes they are right leaving would make him a deserter and oathbreaker , something his father would never countenance if he were alive , and jon doesn't even know if robb would accept his help or turn him over to the authorities. he agrees to return to the wall with them.
lord commander jeor mormont decides to overlook jon's brief desertion , saying many have fled the wall , only to think better of it and return. if they executed everyone who did that , they'd have no men left. mormont tells jon that the war between the lannisters and starks is less important than what they face now , a renewed threat from the wildlings , white walkers , and wights. mormont means to lead the night's watch in force into the haunted forest to learn more of their foe , to prepare to battle against them , and to find the missing benjen stark. jon agrees to commit himself fully to the night's watch and all that lies ahead.
 across the narrow sea.
daenerys regains consciousness. in the wastelands beyond lhazar , daenerys wakes up to terrible news from ser jorah mormont. her son , rhaego , is dead. he was born dead and deformed , covered with scales. the majority of the khalasar has also moved on , leaving them behind. however , drogo lives. daenerys insists on seeing her husband , and finds him a catatonic vegetable. daenerys demands to know why , and mirri maz duur explains that when daenerys saved her , she had already been raped three times and the temple she served had been burned and defiled by the dothraki. they had sacked her village , looted all they owned , and those not killed were enslaved. she has now gotten her revenge , not only on drogo , but on daenerys' child rhaego now her stallion who mounts the world can burn no cities and slaughter no innocents. duur agrees that daenerys saved her life , but she says to ask drogo what life is worth when all else is gone.
it is night , and daenerys is in their tent tending to drogo. she baths him , talks to him , even tries to seduce him , but nothing she does reaches him. she realizes he is no longer there , and seeing him in his vegetative state breaks her heart. crying , daenerys kisses him goodbye , then smothers him with a pillow.
daenerys and her small retinue prepare a funeral pyre for drogo. she makes a speech to the few who are left saying that if they wish to go they may , but if they stay with her she will lead them into a glorious future. she frees those of them who are slaves and asks that they stay as equals. the maegi smirks as some people begin walking away. at daenerys' command , rakharo places the dragon eggs on the pyre , and mirri maz duur is tied to a stake next to the pyre as well. she tells daenerys that she will not scream while she is burned alive. daenerys replies that she only wants the maegi's life. ser jorah believes that daenerys intends to kill herself and pleads for her to reconsider , as they can sell the eggs and travel far away. ignoring jorah's pleas , she kisses his cheek , and sets the pyre alight. mirri maz duur does indeed scream as she burns , and daenerys calmly walks into the flames. she stands below the pyre as flames appear to consume her.
at dawn , the fire dies down. jorah and the rest of the khalasar awake to find daenerys sitting among the still smoldering embers , with three newly hatched baby dragons crawling over her. her clothes have burnt away and her body is covered in ash , but she is completely unharmed. one dragon nuzzles in her arm , another climbs her leg , and the third pulls itself up to sit on her shoulder. at the sight of the mythical animals born anew , an amazed jorah and the few remaining dothraki kneel and swear their allegiance to the mother of dragons. after she slowly stands up from the ashes , the black hatchling on her shoulder rises , spreads its wings and screams , announcing the return of dragons to the world.
 fire and blood is the tenth and final episode of the first season of game of thrones. it is the tenth episode of the series overall. it first aired on june 19 , 2011. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by alan taylor.
david benioff d.b. weiss.

<The North Remembers>

 beyond the wall.
the night's watch approaches crasters keep.
lord commander jeor mormont's rangers arrive at craster's keep having passed several abandoned wildling villages. jon snow , grenn , dolorous edd and samwell tarly are repulsed by craster , who has many wives , most of whom are also his own daughters , but who seemingly has no sons. craster tells jeor that he has not seen the missing benjen stark and reports that the other wildlings are assembling for the king beyond the wall mance rayder. jon challenges their host , who is low and crude , but is demanding and demeaning when he is talking to the noble commander mormont who ignores his insulting behavior . when craster refers to them as southerners , jon argues with him. jeor reprimands jon , noting that craster may be disgusting , but the night's watch needs him. his information and shelter in the harsh conditions north of the wall have helped them many times before. mormont asks jon if someday he wants to lead and tells him that first he needs to learn how to follow. .
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
sansa watches king joffrey's tournament.
king joffrey baratheon holds a tournament to celebrate his nameday on the walls of the red keep. he is irritated by ser dontos hollard , who arrives both late and intoxicated for his bout. joffrey orders his guards to pour an entire barrel of wine down dontos' throat with a funnel. sansa stark intercedes telling joffrey that ordering a death on one's name day is bad luck. joffrey dismisses this as a mindless superstition , but sandor clegane seconds her. sansa convinces joffrey to instead make dontos his court fool , for which dontos is grateful. tyrion lannister arrives back in king's landing , to joffrey's disdain , but to the delight of tommen and myrcella who had worried that he was dead.
 cersei is surprised to see tyrion return.
the small council are in session to discuss the conclave's announcement that the long summer has ended. cersei orders the city gates closed to refugees from the war in the riverlands. when tyrion arrives with a letter from lord tywin , appointing him as acting hand of the king in tywin's stead , cersei becomes livid. she is suspicious that tyrion is taking power for himself , but he convinces her that he is there to act as an advisor. he criticizes his sister for failing to rein in joffrey and overseeing numerous bad decisions , particularly the execution of ned stark. their actions have sparked a war , which , he adds , their side is currently losing. he is even more incredulous when he learns that arya stark escaped , pointing out how much stronger their position could have been with three stark hostages. tyrion hides his lover shae in his chambers in the tower of the hand because he was forbidden by his father to bring her with him. she is initially thrilled at being brought to the capitol , and says that big cities make her want to fuck .
at winterfell , bran stark suffers through the petty complaints of his vassals , facing unrest at robb stark calling his banners and taking the young men south. maester luwin guides him in carrying out a lord's duties. bran dreams that he is his direwolf summer walking in the godswood , and when he looks in the pool , he sees summer's reflection not his own which wakes him. he has osha and hodor take him to the pool and is reassured to find that his waking reflection is his own. they discuss the phenomenon of the red comet , as many people think it means different things. osha tells him she believes it signifies the return of dragons to the world.
 stannis orders the burning of the seven to honor the lord of light.
on the island of dragonstone , king stannis baratheon allows his advisor melisandre to burn statues of the gods of the faith of the seven as an offering to her deity the lord of light. maester cressen is outraged at the affront to his gods and fearful that melisandre is leading stannis into a war that he cannot win. melisandre proclaims stannis a champion of the lord of light , as he draws a burning sword from one of the statues. cressen asks davos seaworth to help him intervene but davos says that it is not the right time.
 stannis dictates a letter about joffrey's parentage.
stannis has received ned stark's letter , informing him that he was the true heir of king robert baratheon , so he will send copies of a letter announcing his claim to the throne of the seven kingdoms to lords throughout the realm. he details the incestuous relationship between cersei and jaime lannister and challenges joffrey's legitimacy. he rejects davos's appeal to consider an alliance with his brother renly baratheon , while renly is claiming the throne for himself , despite renly having widespread support , or even with robb stark , since while robb does not seek the iron throne , he desires northern independence , which stannis sees as robb stealing the northern half of his kingdom. cressen feigns an apology in an effort to trick melisandre into sharing a cup of poisoned wine with him. davos sees him drop the poison in the cup , and tries to stop him. he drinks first and hands the cup to her. melisandre is aware of what cressen is doing , but smiling she drinks anyway and is unaffected by the poison , and cressen dies in vain.
 robb confronts jaime with his direwolf.
 grey wind and jaime.
robb receives the letter and interrogates the captive jaime about his reasons for crippling bran. jaime reveals nothing and attacks robb's decision to keep him in his mobile camp rather than with one of his bannermen as demonstrating a lack of trust. robb asserts his faith in his men and his concern at the lengths house lannister would go to in order to free jaime. his direwolf grey wind is almost fully grown and menaces jaime during the questioning. robb sends his prisoner alton lannister to king's landing with peace terms. his demands include the release of his sisters , the return of his father's remains along with the remains of all those who served him , and the recognition of the north as a free and independent kingdom. theon greyjoy appeals to robb to send him to pyke to seek an alliance with his father balon citing their need for a fleet in order to attack king's landing. catelyn counsels against putting trust in balon because of his history of rebellion. she asks robb to consider exchanging jaime for his sisters. she then asks to return to her younger sons at winterfell but robb tasks her with seeking an alliance with renly and sends ser rodrik cassel instead to winterfell.
 cersei asks a favor of lord baelish.
cersei tasks petyr baelish with finding arya. she needles petyr about his unrequited love for catelyn and he counters by referencing her relationship with jaime , telling her that knowledge is power. she responds by threatening his life in a demonstration of her control over her guards , ordering them to first seize baelish and cut his throat and almost immediately rescinding the order. she warns him that power is power.
joffrey redecorates his throne room , hoping to restore the intimidating grandeur it held under the targaryens. he refuses his mother's suggestion that they ask tywin lannister for aid in the search for arya because he does not feel it is necessary to find her and does not feel it is fitting for a king to ask for help. he blames tywin for their losses in the war and the capture of jaime. having heard rumors about his parentage , he confronts his mother. she dismisses it as gossip spread by his enemies. he questions her about his father's bastard children and insults her by saying that robert had grown tired of her. she slaps him , and he warns her never to hit him again under threat of death.
lord janos slynt leads a city wide massacre of robert's bastards. the infant barra is killed in petyr's brothel in front of her mother and the prostitute ros. tobho mott is interrogated and reveals that gendry has left the city as a recruit of the night's watch. he says that gendry can be identified by his bull's head helm. gendry and arya are travelling north on the kingsroad with yoren's recruits.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
daenerys leads her people through the red waste.
daenerys targaryen leads her diminished khalasar east into the red waste to avoid her rivals. she is surrounded by powerful enemies who ser jorah tells her will kill her and take her dragons. the deadly emptiness of the red waste is her only option. she struggles to make her dragons eat what little meat she has , and her people face starvation. her beloved white mare , her first gift from khal drogo , dies prompting her to halt the march and send three of her bloodriders in three different directions to scout for sustenance and refuge.
 the north remembers is the first episode of the second season of game of thrones. it is the eleventh episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 1 , 2012. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by co executive producer alan taylor.
under the burning red comet in the sky , war grips the continent of westeros. in king's landing , tyrion lannister arrives at court to serve as acting hand of the king , and to rein in his crazed nephew king joffrey , as well as queen regent cersei. at dragonstone , stannis baratheon begins his quest to take the iron throne with the help of a mysterious foreign priestess. on the eastern continent , daenerys leads her people through the red waste. beyond the wall , rangers , led by lord commander jeor mormont , seek help from a dangerous wildling.

<The Night Lands>

 in the seven kingdoms.
in the riverlands , arya stark continues to pose as a boy while traveling north with yoren and his night's watch recruits , and urinates privately. she is drawn to the caged prisoners jaqen h'ghar , rorge and biter when jaqen asks her for water and introduces himself. a pair of gold cloaks approach the party and arya hides , believing that they have come for her. they deliver a warrant for the royal bastard gendry but yoren intimidates them into leaving empty handed. they promise to return with more men.
arya asks gendry why he is wanted and he admits that he does not know. he tells her that he was questioned by lord jon arryn and lord eddard stark in the months before he fled king's landing. he questions why she thought that they had come for her and tells her that he has seen through her disguise. arya reveals her identity to him and swears him to secrecy.
in king's landing , varys discovers shae living with tyrion lannister in the tower of the hand and makes implied threats about revealing her presence. tyrion warns varys not to underestimate him. alton lannister delivers king robb stark's peace terms to the small council and queen regent cersei lannister rejects them. grand maester pycelle relays a message from the night's watch requesting manpower and warning of wights. tyrion is the only one to take the warning seriously.
ros struggles to continue her work as a prostitute having witnessed the murder of the infant royal bastard barra. petyr baelish threatens her with a tale about selling an unhappy girl to a depraved customer in order to recoup his investment. he orders her to return happy after a night off.
tyrion has lord janos slynt for dinner and questions him about the massacre of the royal bastards. janos freely admits his involvement but will not reveal who ordered the attack. tyrion has janos arrested and exiled to the night's watch and installs bronn as commander of the city watch in his place. cersei confronts tyrion about his actions. he warns that she is losing the support of the people but she claims that she does not care. he concludes that joffrey ordered the massacre , having initially suspected that it was cersei. he jokes about her relationship with jaime and she says that he has always been funny. she ends the discussion with the barb that his finest joke was killing their mother when he was born.
on dragonstone , davos recruits the lysene sellsail salladhor saan and his fleet of thirty ships to king stannis baratheon's cause. his son matthos seaworth encourages him to learn to read so that he can study the holy texts of the lord of light but davos is happy to put his faith solely in stannis. melisandre seduces stannis with the promise of a son. at first , stannis hesitates claiming he has a wife but melisandre still manages to successfully seduce stannis.
theon greyjoy travels to the iron islands on a merchant ship and sleeps with the captain's daughter. he tells her that he is expecting a warm reception and is crushed when there is no one to meet him when he disembarks in lordsport. a woman offers him a ride to pyke and he attempts to seduce her throughout the journey. he is further disappointed when his father balon questions his loyalty and his memory of his roots having spent nine years as a ward of house stark. he delivers robb stark's letter suggesting an alliance against house lannister , for which robb will make balon king of the iron islands again. his guide enters and he is shocked to realize that she is his sister yara when balon greets her warmly. balon rejects the proposal and compares theon unfavourably to his sister. he insists that he will follow the ironborn tradition of paying the iron price meaning to take something through force and says that no one will give him his crown. when theon warns his father that he will not defeat the lannisters , balon retorts that he has no intention of fighting the lannisters.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
daenerys waits for news.
daenerys targaryen and her khalasar lie exhausted in the heat , their water dwindling as they wait for the return of her bloodriders. rakharo's horse returns riderless and ser jorah mormont discovers his head and severed braid in its saddle bag. he surmises that rakharo was caught and killed by a rival khalasar. irri is devastated by the death and believes the mutilation will prevent rakharo from entering the night lands , the dothraki land of the dead. daenerys promises to hold a funeral for rakharo.
b.
 beyond the wall.
samwell tarly rescues one of craster's wives , gilly , from ghost when he bothers her for food. she confides her desire to flee from the keep because of her fear for what craster will do if her unborn child is a boy. sam takes her to jon and she begs him to take her with the ranging but will not say what she is afraid of. jon refuses to aid her because of the lord commander's orders not to get involved with craster's wives.
jon notices craster taking a baby into the woods at night. he follows him and sees him leave the child to the white walkers. before he can intervene craster surprises him and knocks him out.
 the night lands is the second episode of the second season of game of thrones. it is the twelfth episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 8 , 2012. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by co executive producer alan taylor.
stannis uses ser davos to seek out new allies for his war with the lannisters. on the road north , arya confides in gendry. robb stark sends theon greyjoy to win an alliance with his father and the fierce warriors of the iron islands. cersei and tyrion clash on how to rule in king's landing.

<What is Dead May Never Die>

 beyond the wall.
craster drags his captive jon snow back to his keep. he had caught jon spying on him while he left a baby in the forest for the white walkers and has beaten him bloody. craster orders the men of the night's watch out of his home , blaming jon. lord commander jeor mormont questions jon about his actions. jon realizes that jeor has known all along that craster is sacrificing his sons. however , mormont considers craster too valuable a contact to risk offending , as he is one of their few sources of information and shelter beyond the wall. mormont himself is disgusted by craster's human sacrifices not to mention his incestuous relationships with his own daughters , but he will not interfere , and forbids jon from doing so , as craster was helped many members of the night's watch , among them , benjen stark. jon reveals seeing something take the child. jeor predicts that whatever it was jon will see it again.
samwell tarly gives gilly a thimble that once belonged to his mother. he promises to come back for her when they make the return journey to castle black.
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
bran stark continues to experience strange dreams where he sees the world from the perspective of his direwolf summer. he follows hodor into his own bedroom and looks down on himself sleeping. later , he confides in maester luwin , who is dismissive of their significance.
catelyn stark arrives in the camp of king renly baratheon during a tournament. she watches brienne of tarth defeat ser loras tyrell and claim a place in renly's kingsguard. renly introduces catelyn to his new wife , margaery tyrell. renly shows off his 100 , 000 strong army. catelyn warns renly to take the war seriously.
 catelyn is impressed with brienne.
theon greyjoy is included in his father balon's war council. balon reveals his plan to attack the lightly defended north while their armies are fighting against house lannister. theon is fuming when he is assigned a single ship to raid the fishing villages of the stony shore while his sister yara is put in command of thirty ships and told to take deepwood motte. theon implores his father to reconsider , claiming that if the greyjoys attack the north , they face the possibility of total destruction if they lose , but if they ally with the starks and win , balon will be crowned king of the iron islands and house greyjoy will be awarded casterly rock and essentially the source of the lannisters' wealth along with it , but balon rebuffs theon and chastises him for becoming loyal to the starks. theon challenges his father's lack of faith in him and reminds him that he gave him up as a ward. balon reacts by hitting his son and storming out as theon shouts at him from behind. theon considers warning robb about his father's actions , but ultimately reaffirms his loyalty to his family by being baptised by a drowned priest.
shae complains to tyrion lannister about being confined to his chambers. he liaises with varys to find her a job that will give her some freedom. cersei lannister hosts an awkward dinner for her children and her captive sansa stark. sansa maintains her fa ade of loyalty to her captors. shae reports as sansa's new handmaiden , allowing sansa to vent some frustration about her inexperience.
 theon's baptism.
tyrion tests the loyalty of the small council by feeding them each a different plan for a marriage alliance involving princess myrcella baratheon. he uncovers pycelle as an informant to cersei when cersei confronts him about the plan he fed to pycelle. tyrion insists on pursuing the exposed plan to marry myrcella into house martell of dorne over cersei's protests. he has bronn arrest pycelle for his treachery. petyr baelish is furious about being involved in tyrion's deception. tyrion placates him by offering him an opportunity to act as an envoy to renly and catelyn.
renly tries to initiate sex with his lover loras but is rebuffed. loras reminds him of the importance of fathering an heir and goes to fetch his sister queen margaery. margaery fails to seduce renly. she is pragmatic about his homosexuality , and suggests including her brother in their love making , asserting the importance of producing an heir.
arya stark struggles with insomnia and takes advice from yoren about coping with her painful memories. he tells her to focus on retribution. they are interrupted by the arrival of ser amory lorch with a force of lannister men and gold cloaks. yoren marshals the recruits for a battle. he confronts ser amory and refuses to comply with his demands that he surrender the royal bastard gendry. yoren dies fighting bravely but his recruits are overcome. during the fight arya rescues jaqen h'ghar from a fire near the prisoner wagon. lommy greenhands picks up gendry's helmet and is wounded by a crossbow bolt. arya is incapacitated by polliver who takes needle from her. gendry and hot pie are also captured. lommy begs polliver to carry him but polliver stabs him in the throat with needle instead. arya convinces her captors that lommy was gendry because he was carrying the helmet. ser amory orders the prisoners be taken to harrenhal.
 what is dead may never die is the third episode of the second season of game of thrones. it is the thirteenth episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 15 , 2012. it was written by story editor bryan cogman and directed by cinematographer alik sakharov.
catelyn stark treats with king renly in the hope of winning an alliance. tyrion undertakes a complex plan in king's landing to expose an enemy. at winterfell , bran's dreams continue to trouble him.

<Garden of Bones>

 in the seven kingdoms.
a silent sister working on a casualty at oxcross.
the northern army under king robb stark leads a surprise night time assault against an encamped lannister army , which was only manned by rennick and another lannister guardsman garden of bones , with his direwolf grey wind causing a considerable amount of damage. the battle of oxcross is a smashing victory , following through on robb's promise to give cersei another whispering wood. 2 the next day robb surveys the battlefield as silent sisters tend to both stark and lannister wounded , while his bannerman , lord roose bolton of the dreadfort , argues that they should kill all of the lannister soldiers they took prisoner , because they're having trouble supplying their own army and prisoners will slow them down. robb disagrees , saying they will fight honorably and follow the laws of war. bolton concedes that some of the lannister officers might have useful information they could be tortured into revealing , but robb refuses , not wanting to give the lannisters an excuse to torture his sisters , sansa and arya.
robb sees a woman battlefield healer treating a wounded lannister soldier. the prisoner protests when she tells him she has to amputate in order to save his life. robb helps hold him down as she saws off the leg. the woman , who introduces herself as talisa of volantis , criticizes robb for the need for this war. robb doesn't want the iron throne , just revenge on joffrey for his father's death. she is shocked to learn he doesn't care which king takes the throne after they defeat joffrey having declared for neither of the baratheon brothers . he just wants them to leave the north alone afterward. she points out that for all the bloodshed they have caused , he hasn't hurt the ones who killed his father , joffrey and tywin lannister. the men they slaughtered were not tywin's main army but unwilling boy soldiers and conscripts from the westerlands.
 the prisoners arrive at harrenhal.
arya stark , gendry , and hot pie are taken by ser amory lorch's group of soldiers to harrenhal , a vast but partially ruined castle which was badly damaged during the targaryen conquest three hundred years ago by dragons' fire. arya's group is herded in with many other prisoners the lannister soldiers have taken , primarily peasant refugees from the riverlands. the commander of the entire lannister force is ser gregor clegane , the mountain that rides , previously declared an outlaw by eddard stark for his raiding in the riverlands. now the positions are reversed , with clegane having the support of the iron throne to brutalize the rivermen. the stench of corpses is so strong that arya notices it as soon as they are in sight of the castle. the lannister soldiers under ser gregor particularly one known as the tickler sadistically torture many of the prisoners they have taken. one method used is to tie a bucket containing a rat to a man's abdomen , and then to hold a flame to the back of the bucket so the rat will chew its way through the man's guts. the prisoners are for the most part simple peasant refugees with no knowledge of the war , and the lannister soldiers are savagely torturing them just because they want to know where they may have hid the few valuables they have. however , some are also asked if they know anything about a group known as the brotherhood. just as gendry is about to be tortured , lord tywin lannister arrives with the main host of his army , who have retreated to harrenhal to regroup after their loss at the battle of the whispering wood. the main lannister army group led by lord tywin is settling in to use harrenhal as their new main base for the ongoing campaign in the riverlands.
 leave her face , i like her pretty.
tywin orders an immediate halt to the tortures saving gendry , rationally pointing out how disproportionate it is relative to what little wealth the peasants might be hiding , and it would be far more efficient to put them to work around the castle. as a blacksmith's apprentice , gendry's skills are of particular use to them , and he is set to work. tywin instantly notices that arry is really a girl dressed up in boy's clothing , criticizing his soldiers for being too foolish to notice. when he asks her why she's dressed as a boy , arya simply explains that it was safer. tywin is impressed with her intelligence , and takes her on as his new cupbearer while his army is based at the castle.
in king's landing , king joffrey baratheon is furious when he hears of robb stark's decisive victory against lannister forces. he has sansa stark brought before the assembled court in the recently redecorated throne room , which now boasts iron spikes on many surfaces and roaring fires surrounding the pillars. lancel lannister tells sansa and the assembled nobles that robb only won the battle with trickery and sorcery. at first , joffrey sadistically menaces sansa by brandishing a crossbow at her and openly toying with the thought of killing her right in front of the throne to send her brother a message. despite being clearly terrified , sansa refuses to give joffrey the satisfaction of scaring her and continues to firmly pledge her loyalty. annoyed , he reluctantly concedes to his mother's insistence that they need sansa alive , lowering the crossbow and ordering her to stand. .
 sansa , beaten and stripped in front of the entire court.
joffrey then sits down on the iron throne and commands ser meryn trant of the kingsguard to beat and strip her as punishment , but instructs trant to leave her face because i like her pretty. ser meryn punches sansa violently in the stomach and strikes her in the back of the legs with the flat of his sword , causing her to fall down. he then rips open the back of her gown , leaving her partially naked from the waist up. as the beating continues , the entire court watches in horror , particularly a disgusted sandor clegane. but despite being filled with dozens of knights and officials , no one intervenes out of fear of joffrey's wrath.
a furious tyrion lannister marches in and puts a stop to the spectacle. he orders someone to cover sansa up and sandor immediately steps forward , taking off his cloak and proceeds to gently wrap it around her. tyrion turns his wrath upon joffrey , berating his actions as sansa is his future wife and queen that he is publicly shaming and the fact that joffrey doesn't pause to think how politically disastrous it would be for their allies to see him having his guards beat a valuable political hostage to a bloody pulp . furious , joffrey proclaims that he was punishing her. denouncing his nephew as a halfwit , tyrion points out the absurdity of punishing sansa for her brother's actions miles away in a war that joffrey himself started. now completely enraged , joffrey bellows that as king , he can do whatever he pleases , but tyrion again coldly counters that the mad king thought he could do as he pleased too , which led to him being overthrown and killed.
 joffrey torments ros to send a message to tyrion.
when ser meryn tries to support the king , tyrion silences the kingsguard by ordering bronn to kill meryn if the knight opens his mouth again. tyrion comforts the shaken sansa and personally escorts her out of the hall. he asks her whether she wants to end her engagement to the king , but she continues to parrot the lines that she loves joffrey and will uphold her duty. impressed , tyrion remarks that she has learned how to survive around joffrey and might just make it out of her situation alive , respectfully calling her lady stark.
bronn suggests to tyrion that as an angry young man , maybe what joffrey needs is to have sex with a woman , and that they should set him up with a prostitute. tyrion agrees that maybe this would give joffrey a chance to release his frustrations away from sansa. indeed , he might even be grateful for the gesture given that he didn't have much of a father figure in robert baratheon to set him straight , doing something nice for the boy might even be the second chance joffrey needs to re establish a relationship with a male family figure. so tyrion arranges for two prostitutes from littlefinger's brothel , ros and daisy , to entertain joffrey. unfortunately , the attempt fails horrifically instead of trying to have sex with the prostitutes , joffrey brings a loaded crossbow into the bedchamber. at crossbow point , joffrey forces ros to beat daisy unconscious , and then to dump her body in tyrion's chambers , to send his uncle a message warning him not to interfere with his handling of sansa again.
as tyrion works in his chamber late at night , his cousin lancel lannister knocks on his door delivering orders from cersei to release grand maester pycelle from the dungeon at once. despite their blood relationship lancel clearly holds tyrion in contempt and openly calls him imp. curious , tyrion asks why lancel is so late delivering the message. blundering into a rather obvious trap , lancel retorts that he always delivers messages immediately and is never late. tyrion then simply points out how odd it is that lancel would be coming from cersei's bedchambers in the middle of the night. lancel nervously says cersei often works tirelessly keeping late hours , but tyrion also notices that he reeks of cersei's favorite lavender oil perfume. tyrion enquires whether lancel was made a knight before or after he started sharing cersei's bed. lancel falls apart , saying that cersei's father ordered him to obey her every command when he became a squire to king robert. tyrion sarcastically asks if cersei forced him to have sex with her too. tyrion wonders aloud what joffrey would do if he found out that lancel had not only killed joffrey's father but was also sleeping with his mother. lancel gets down on his knees and pleads for his life. tyrion gently instructs lancel that he won't tell , but from now on , lancel must report everything cersei does back to tyrion. as lancel leaves , he also casually agrees that he will accede to cersei's request and free pycelle if she wants him as a pet , though he doesn't want him back on the small council.
petyr littlefinger baelish arrives at king renly baratheon's camp as a political envoy from king joffrey baratheon at king's landing. he tries to gain renly's trust by implying that if renly does march on the capital , he will help take down the lannisters from within it is unclear if he is lying , but he is also ready to jump ship if the lannisters lose , and stannis is not an option , because stannis despises littlefinger renly is tempted by the notion , despite his dislike for littlefinger. littlefinger then has a conversation with queen margaery tyrell in which he tries to intimidate her by hinting that her husband is homosexual. he does not anticipate that margaery seems to already know and not to care. margaery is not a naive ingenue like sansa stark but versed in court strategies she honestly believes that renly is the best candidate for king , and voluntarily entered into a paper marriage to secure the political alliance between renly and house tyrell. baelish then meets with catelyn stark , who is still furious at his betrayal of her husband to his death. baelish first tries to kindle a romance with her , saying that now they are both free , it may be that they can be together. catelyn simply draws a dagger and demands that he stop speaking. discouraged , he moves on to present tyrion's offer that the lannisters want to make a prisoner exchange with the starks if they release jaime lannister , queen cersei will release both sansa stark and arya stark baelish lies about the lannisters having arya . catelyn insists that robb would never allow the exchange , but littlefinger tries to manipulate her love for her imprisoned daughters. as a show of good faith from tyrion , baelish brings forward a pair of silent sisters carrying a box containing the remains of ned stark. deeply grieving , catelyn tells petyr to get out. she looks at the bones with pain , but then shuts the box with a look of resolve on her face.
 the shadow wrenches itself free from melisandre's womb.
king stannis baratheon then arrives at renly's camp , along with the red priestess melisandre and ser davos seaworth in his retinue. stannis has come to treat with renly and give him the chance to willingly relinquish his claim and serve his older brother. renly , along with his kingsguard members brienne and ser loras tyrell , counters that no one wants stannis to be king. renly also scoffs at stannis' conversion to the religion of the lord of light. catelyn stark criticizes both brothers for acting like sulking children. stannis counters that it is odd that catelyn is standing alongside renly , given that her own husband ned stark rejected renly's initial plan to claim the throne and supported stannis as robert's rightful heir , even at the cost of his own life. in a display of leniency that is uncharacteristic for him , stannis offers renly that if he relinquishes his claim , stannis will grant him his old seat on the small council , and even name him as his heir unless stannis ever has a son in the future . catelyn reminds stannis that their common enemy is the lannisters , but he will not hear it , again asserting his right to the iron throne. renly states that the 100 , 000 soldiers waving his banners makes him king , and stannis' small army is hopelessly outnumbered. stannis says that they shall see the next morning when their armies clash , and he departs. as she leaves melisandre warns , look to your sins lord renly , for the night is dark and full of terrors. renly watches his brother fade into the distance and asks his companions if they can believe that he loved stannis once.
at king stannis' command , ser davos rows melisandre to some caves located near renly's camp. davos knows these caves from his old smuggling days. melisandre asks him about whether he desires her , and his views on the conflict they are involved in between right and wrong , insisting that she is on the side of good. they find the way through the caves is blocked by metal bars. melisandre takes off her cloak revealing that she is naked and heavily pregnant and promptly gives birth to a creature made entirely of shadow , as ser davos looks on in horror.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
the main gate of qarth opens for daenerys.
on the return of her bloodrider kovarro , daenerys receives word that the city of qarth is nearby , and they are willing to receive the mother of dragons. ser jorah mormont cautions that the desert surrounding qarth is known as the garden of bones , as those who are turned away by qarth perish outside the city walls due to exposure and thirst. daenerys and her khalasar leave the red waste and reach the city of qarth. the thirteen , a group of wealthy nobles and merchant princes , the leaders of qarth , emerge to greet her , guarded by a group of shielded spearmen. one of the thirteen , the spice king , speaks for the group. they request that the mother of dragons present her children , but daenerys insists that her people be fed and sheltered before she reveals her dragons. the thirteen decide to turn daenerys' group away and abandon them to the garden of bones. daenerys swears vengeance on qarth , with fire and blood , should they not comply. jorah seems to find these threats rather reckless , but one of the thirteen , xaro xhoan daxos , chooses to vouch for daenerys through sumai , a blood oath by which a qartheen may vouch for a visitor. daenerys and her khalasar are let into qarth.
the episode won a creative arts emmy award for art direction in a single camera series in september 2012 1 .
tyrion attempts to restrain joffrey's cruelty. catelyn attempts to broker a peace between stannis and renly. daenerys and her followers arrive at the great city of qarth and hope to find refuge there. arya and gendry arrive at harrenhal , a great castle now under lannister occupation.

<The Ghost of Harrenhal>

 in the seven kingdoms.
king renly is assassinated.
king renly baratheon is assassinated by the shadow brought into the world by melisandre and fathered by stannis baratheon just after agreeing to an alliance with king robb stark. his kingsguard brienne is mistakenly blamed for the death and she flees the camp with catelyn stark. brienne later swears fealty to catelyn. renly's army disintegrates , with the forces of house tyrell fleeing to highgarden and the rest of his bannermen joining his brother king stannis baratheon. lord petyr baelish accompanies the tyrell faction , sensing an opportunity to sway them to joffrey's side. ser davos seaworth challenges king stannis on his use of melisandre's magic and convinces him to leave melisandre behind when they attack king's landing to quash rumors of her influence on him. stannis places davos in command of his fleet.
hand of the king tyrion lannister brings news of renly's death to his sister , queen regent cersei lannister. she is pleased , but tyrion predicts stannis's imminent attack. he tries to discuss plans for their defense , but she insists on keeping them secret. from his spy , his cousin ser lancel lannister , tyrion learns that cersei has been having extensive meetings with the alchemists' guild. .
 brienne kills a kingsguard.
he visits wisdom hallyne of the guild and learns that they have stockpiled thousands of jars of wildfire , a dangerously flammable substance , to use as catapult ammunition. bronn warns that this strategy could be disastrous , and result in panicking defenders accidentally burning down their own city. tyrion orders hallyne to answer to him instead of cersei. tyrion also passes a street protest that blames him for the ills of the city , as they believe tyrion to be manipulating joffrey.
theon greyjoy takes command of his new ship and finds his crew insubordinate. his first mate dagmer cleftjaw tells him that he needs to prove himself to the men and theon plans to raid torrhen's square to draw the remaining forces of house stark from winterfell. his plan is successful and ser rodrik cassel leads a force of 200 men to relieve his siege of torrhen's square. bran stark provides well judged counsel to his subjects but continues to be troubled by his dreams. .
 tyrion discovers the wildfire.
he discusses dreaming of a three eyed raven with the wildling woman osha but she declines to interpret the dream. he also confides dreaming of the sea flooding winterfell and drowning his people , including ser rodrik.
tywin lannister hosts a protracted war council to determine a new strategy to deal with robb. arya stark serves as his cupbearer. though he does not know who she really is , tywin realizes that she is of northern extraction and questions her about her origins and opinions regarding robb. she manages to avoid revealing her true identity. she leaves to fetch water and encounters jaqen h'ghar , now a lannister man at arms. jaqen says that because she saved his life , and those of his two fellow prisoners , he owes her three deaths and offers to kill three people of her choosing. she targets the tickler , ser gregor clegane's torturer.
the tickler is soon found dead in the courtyard , his neck twisted 180 degrees. arya notices jaqen on the walkway above and he holds a single finger to his face to signify his responsibility.
b.
 beyond the wall.
the night's watch and ghost on the fist of the first men.
lord commander jeor mormont leads his ranging to the ancient fist of the first men to rendezvous with the experienced scout qhorin halfhand. qhorin arrives and warns jeor that they must change their tactics to combat the wildling army under king beyond the wall mance rayder. he suggests sending a small party ahead to neutralize mance's lookouts in the skirling pass. jon snow joins qhorin's group , while samwell tarly takes his task as the steward of lord commander jeor mormont.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
drogon , breathing fire for the first time.
daenerys targaryen has taught her dragons to breathe fire on command and they are now capable of sharing and eating meat on their own. she is enjoying the hospitality of the wealthy noble xaro xhoan daxos in the city of qarth. he hosts a gathering in her honor in the gardens of his home. she is perturbed by the tricks of the warlock pyat pree , who invites her to visit the house of the undying.
the masked woman quaithe delivers an enigmatic warning to ser jorah mormont about daenerys's need for protection from those who lust after her dragons. xaro offers to fund daenerys's invasion of westeros in exchange for her hand in marriage. later , she seeks jorah's advice about the proposal and he cautions against accepting financial aid. he suggests that she will be able to win her throne should she reach westeros with just a single ship. he reveals his depth of feeling for her but she does not return his affections.
 the ghost of harrenhal is the fifth episode of the second season of game of thrones. it is the fifteenth episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 29 , 2012. it was written by executive producers david benioff and d.b. weiss and directed by david petrarca.
confusion rages in the stormlands in the wake of a devastating reversal. catelyn must flee with a new ally , whilst littlefinger sees an opportunity in the chaos. theon seeks to prove himself to his father in battle. arya receives a promise from the enigmatic jaqen h'ghar. the night's watch arrives at the fist of the first men. daenerys targaryen receives a marriage proposal.

<The Old Gods and the New>

 in the north.
theon approaches bran , then takes over winterfell.
at winterfell , maester luwin frantically sends off a messenger raven just as a band of raiders from house greyjoy , led by theon greyjoy , take over the undefended castle. theon had lured the defenders away with a feint at torrhen's square and then infiltrated the castle using grappling claws. theon tells bran stark to surrender the castle to him to save his people. bran submits in front of his assembled people. ser rodrik cassel is captured by theon's men as he is returning from torrhen's square. he spits in theon's face , and dagmer cleftjaw insists that theon must kill him , or lose face in front of his ironborn raiders. theon botches the beheading of ser rodrik , requiring several hacks and a kick , horrifying the people of winterfell. later that night , osha the wildling has sex with theon , but then sneaks out of his room while he is asleep. osha frees bran , rickon stark , hodor , and their direwolves , summer and shaggydog , smuggling them out of the castle and killing one of theon's guards in the process.
 in the westerlands.
at king robb stark's army camp , robb chats with talisa , who has followed his forces on their campaign. robb introduces talisa to his mother catelyn stark , who has returned from the stormlands along with brienne of tarth. they are interrupted when lord roose bolton arrives with the terrible news sent by luwin's last messenger raven. furious at theon's betrayal , robb intends to march his army back to the north to repel the invasion. roose advises that the few hundred soldiers left scattered in the north can be rallied by his bastard son , ramsay snow , who is in the north at the dreadfort. they could overcome the small ironborn invasion force. roose warns that retreating the entire northern army group would lose everything they have gained. robb agrees , but insists that bolton's men take theon alive so robb can look him in the eyes and ask why before personally executing him.
 in the riverlands.
at harrenhal , the main base camp for the house lannister army in the riverlands , tywin lannister berates ser amory lorch for delivering a letter to their enemies instead of their allies , because he cannot read properly. he discovers that his cupbearer arry secretly arya stark can read. .
 joffrey has excrement thrown on him by rioting peasants.
petyr littlefinger baelish arrives at camp and meets with tywin. arya tries to hide her face to prevent littlefinger from identifying her. baelish discusses the assassination of renly baratheon , and the subsequent rallying of the noble houses from the stormlands under the banner of his older brother stannis baratheon. however , house tyrell of the reach has retreated its large army back to their capital at highgarden , and has not joined stannis. baelish discusses with tywin the possibility of forming an alliance between house lannister and house tyrell.
later tywin questions arya about her origins. while tywin is distracted , arya sees that a letter on his table is about her older brother robb stark , so she snatches it. after asking tywin about his own father , tywin sends her to fetch more firewood. she takes this opportunity to read the letter , but unfortunately bumps into amory lorch who sees that she is carrying the letter and grows suspicious. arya runs away and amory heads to tell tywin. arya runs to find jaqen h'ghar , telling him that amory lorch is the second name he owes her. just as amory lorch reaches tywin's quarters , he falls down dead with a poisoned dart lodged in his neck.
 in king's landing.
the royal court including king joffrey baratheon , queen regent cersei lannister , prince tommen baratheon , and sansa stark are at the docks seeing off princess myrcella baratheon as she departs in a ship bound for dorne. cersei is heartbroken and warns tyrion that she will not forgive him for sending away her only daughter.
as per tyrion's plans , myrcella will stay in dorne with house martell until she comes of age to fulfill the marriage alliance to their youngest son , trystane martell. the high septon of the faith of the seven offers a blessing for her departure. the streets of the capital city are overflowing with starving refugees from the war of the five kings , as cersei ignored both tyrion and janos slynt's earlier warnings that something had to be done to care for the starving peasants or there would be mounting discontent with her son's rule.
as the royal party travels back to the red keep through the crowded streets , the starving refugees and commoners of king's landing plead for bread and hurl insults at king joffrey , and ultimately , someone throws cow excrement into joffrey's face. despite being accompanied by only a few dozen guards facing hundreds of peasants , joffrey impetuously orders his soldiers to kill the entire crowd. .
 sansa is almost raped.
a riot subsequently erupts and spreads throughout the city. the royal party's guards are soon overwhelmed , and joffrey , cersei and tyrion barely make it back to the castle unscathed. the high septon is literally torn apart by the mob.
tyrion is enraged by joffrey's shocking stupidity , for massively overreacting to having cow dung thrown at him , and for not realizing that his orders would cause a riot among the starving peasants and endanger the entire royal party. joffrey , still manically cursing the mob and demanding they all be killed , shrieks that tyrion cannot speak to him in that way and petulantly reminds his uncle that he is talking to a king. tyrion then contemptuously slaps his nephew across the face but joffrey does not retaliate. the scant two thousand city watch guards have difficulty containing the riot , and chaos reigns throughout the city. tyrion realizes to his horror that sansa stark was lost in the crowd. joffrey petulantly refuses to send his men after her , oblivious to her importance as a hostage or the fact that if any harm comes to her , the starks may retaliate by executing his uncle jaime. outside , sansa is dragged away by a mob of angry men and is about to be raped , when sandor the hound clegane arrives and slays her assailants. he carries sansa to the castle and orders handmaids to take care of her. tyrion thanks him for saving sansa's life , but sandor bluntly responds that he didn't do it for him.
b.
 beyond the wall.
jon first lays eyes on ygritte.
the scouting party of the night's watch led by qhorin halfhand has left the expeditionary base their main force set up at the fist of the first men , and continues searching for the wildlings in the frostfangs mountain range. they encounter a small group of wildling scouts and engage them in combat , killing all except one a red haired young woman named ygritte. qhorin orders jon snow to execute her while the rest of them continue on up the mountain. jon hesitates , giving ygritte enough time to make a run for it. jon pursues and captures ygritte , but they have become separated from qhorin's scouting party. with darkness falling , jon and his prisoner have to settle in for the night , hoping to link back up with qhorin when daylight returns.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
daenerys discovers that her guards have been slain and her dragons are missing.
in qarth , daenerys targaryen tries to negotiate with the spice king for ships to return to westeros. however , he considers it to be too risky an investment considering that she has no army and has no open supporters in westeros and she receives nothing. returning with xaro xhoan daxos to his mansion , daenerys finds her guards dead , irri strangled to death , and her dragons missing. a hooded figure carries the dragons in a covered box up steps towards a tower.
 the old gods and the new is the sixth episode of the second season of game of thrones. it is the sixteenth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 6 , 2012. it was written by co executive producer vanessa taylor and directed by david nutter.
arya has a surprise visitor dany vows to take what is hers joffrey meets his subjects qhorin gives jon a chance to prove himself.

<A Man Without Honor>

 in the seven kingdoms.
at winterfell , now held by the ironborn , theon greyjoy awakens to find that osha is gone and she has escaped with hodor , bran stark , rickon stark and their direwolves. theon berates lorren for allowing them to escape. when lorren counters that theon is also to blame for sleeping with osha and letting his guard down , theon furiously beats him. theon leads the ironborn on horse to hunt down the boys with hounds to track them. the search leads them to a shepherd's farm , but the farmer says that he hasn't seen anyone. dagmer finds some walnut shells , so they know that bran and rickon were there , but the hounds can't get the scent. theon tells them the hunt is over and to return maester luwin to winterfell he knows where they are , and his mercy has been exhausted.
 theon has the burned bodies raised on the walls of winterfell.
theon returns to winterfell with two children's bodies burned beyond recognition , and he has them hoisted to either side of the main gate. maester luwin cries out in grief when he sees them.
at harrenhal , tywin lannister is discussing the assassination of amory lorch with ser gregor clegane. tywin is convinced that it was an assassination attempt on himself , unaware that jaqen h'ghar actually killed lorch on the request of arya stark. ser gregor speculates that the brotherhood without banners may have been responsible. enraged , tywin orders gregor to burn out villages and farms in reprisal for this assassination attempt. tywin later suspects that arya is highborn , because she doesn't pronounce m'lord the way commoners do , instead saying my lord , and possesses an educated vocabulary. arya makes the excuse that her mother , whom she said was a handmaiden for years to royalty , had taught her to speak properly like them.
in king's landing , sansa stark comes to thank sandor the hound clegane for saving her life during the recent riot in the city and says that he was very brave. sandor simply says that a dog doesn't need courage to fight off rats. sansa is perturbed by his hateful speech , but sandor cautions that a day will come when his penchant for violence is all that stands between her and her beloved king joffrey.
 sansa and shae trying to flip the mattress.
sansa awakens in her bed from a nightmare , only to find the sheets covered in blood she has begun menstruating for the first time. given that joffrey openly promised to rape sansa to put a son in you as soon as she had her blood , she then frantically tries to get rid of the bloody sheets to remove the evidence. shae tries to help sansa hide the sheets but sandor finds them.
terrified of being brought to joffrey , sansa is instead brought before queen regent cersei lannister , who awkwardly tries to comfort her. cersei presents sansa with warped advice on joffrey , bizarre counseling based on her bitter marriage with king robert baratheon. blithely waving away her son's torment of sansa and homicidal outbursts she says that her brother jaime lannister stayed by her side the whole time she was giving birth to joffrey , but sansa should never expect such devotion from joffrey. cersei firmly believes that sansa and joffrey not being in love is a good thing she advises sansa the more people you love , the weaker you are. cersei says that no one expects her to love joffrey , though she may take comfort in her love for the children they will have.
privately , cersei meets with tyrion and expresses regret at having children with her own brother jaime. she wonders if joffrey's violent personality is the price of her and jaime's sins. tyrion earnestly points out that her other two children , myrcella and tommen , are not monsters , and they share an odd moment of sympathy.
 torrhen karstark discovers the body of alton lannister.
at king robb stark's army camp in the westerlands , close to an unidentified keep , alton lannister returns as an envoy giving queen cersei's response to robb's peace terms. robb is unsurprised that she rejected them and imprisons alton with his cousin jaime lannister. the nurse talisa maegyr discusses medical supplies she needs with robb. robb suggests she accompany him to the crag to acquire the supplies she needs. that night , jaime kills alton to lure the guard , torrhen karstark , into his cell. jaime strangles torrhen and escapes , but is soon recaptured. torrhen was the son of lord rickard karstark , one of the major nobles from the north. lord rickard demands jaime's execution in revenge , regardless of his protected status as both a prisoner of war and a valuable political hostage. catelyn is forced to argue for jaime's life. catelyn confronts jaime and tells him that he has no honor. jaime bitterly explains that his vows as a knight required him to defend the innocent and serve the king , but his king was slaughtering the innocent. jaime considers concepts like honor and loyalty na ve at best and hypocritical at worst. jaime asserts that he has only been with cersei and begins to ridicule eddard stark , catelyn's late husband , by bringing up the shame of eddard fathering a bastard. this brings catelyn to breaking point and she asks for brienne's sword.
b.
 beyond the wall.
jon snow is still separated from the night's watch scouting group led by qhorin halfhand. he attempts to locate them , traveling with his wildling prisoner ygritte. she argues with jon , criticizing him for ignoring their common descent from the first men. she states that the animosity of the southerners to the wildlings is arbitrary , given that the wildlings are only distinguished from them by living north of the wall when it was constructed. she mocks jon's sexual repression and surmises that he is a virgin. she taunts him by offering to teach him how to have sex. she escapes and leads him into an ambush. ygritte says that jon should have taken her when he had the chance.
i.
 in qarth.
daenerys targaryen is desperate to find her stolen dragons. ser jorah mormont returns and she orders him to find them. xaro xhoan daxos claims to be distressed at breaking his promise to protect her , fearing that his word will be publicly seen as worthless. jorah questions quaithe of asshai. quaithe knows that jorah once betrayed daenerys by spying on her. quaithe warns jorah that the man who stole the dragons is already with daenerys. jorah finds daenerys , in the company of kovarro , pleading with the council of the thirteen to find her dragons. the warlock pyat pree confesses to stealing the dragons and declares xaro the king of qarth. doubles of the warlock then magically appear behind the other members of the thirteen and slit their throats , leaving only pyat pree and xaro. xaro secretly entered into an alliance with pyat pree to become king. pyat pree urges daenerys to find her dragons at the house of the undying as the three flee.
 a man without honor is the seventh episode of the second season of game of thrones. it is the seventeenth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 13 , 2012. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by david nutter.
jaime meets a relative theon hunts dany receives an invitation.

<The Prince of Winterfell>

 beyond the wall.
ygritte brings jon snow before the lord of bones , who orders him executed , because he has already captured qhorin halfhand and doesn't need two crows for questioning. ygritte convinces him to spare jon because of his stark blood. qhorin initiates a plan to install jon as a spy within the wildling ranks.
grenn and samwell tarly discover a cache of dragonglass weapons at the fist of the first men. jon's absence has been noted , but sam refuses to believe that he is dead.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
ser jorah mormont advises daenerys targaryen to leave her dragons and flee qarth , as he has recently booked passage to astapor. she insists on attempting to reclaim them and asks ser jorah to lead her to the house of the undying , without knowing what lies in wait. .
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
theon gives dagmer a pouch of gold to compensate for the killing of the orphans.
yara greyjoy arrives at winterfell with a small band of men , but instead of bringing reinforcements she offers theon only advice. winterfell is too far from the sea , they can't successfully defend it with so few soldiers , and the north is rising against him. she implores theon to abandon the castle and return home with her , but he refuses to give up his prize. dagmer tells theon that after killing the orphans , he also murdered the farmer and his wife.
 bran overhears luwin and osha.
luwin spots osha sneaking into the catacombs. he follows her inside , and she explains that after reaching the farm she doubled back , using a stream to mask their scent from the hounds. luwin urges her not to tell bran and rickon about the children theon had murdered , but bran is sitting up behind a corner and listening to them.
stannis baratheon's fleet is closing in on king's landing. stannis tells davos that he admires him and offers him the hand of the king role once he takes the throne.
tyrion lannister scours history books seeking inspiration for his plans to defend the city. he takes advice from bronn and varys and infers that he has decided to make use of the stocks of wildfire. king joffrey baratheon is full of bravado , but his mother is worried about letting him fight. she tries to ensure his safety by kidnapping the prostitute ros , believing that she is tyrion's lover. tyrion is relieved that shae is safe but vows revenge against his sister. .
 arya gives jaqen his own name.
lord tywin lannister is torn between needing to defend king's landing and wanting to drive king robb stark from the westerlands. he decides to march west , leaving arya stark at harrenhal to serve his castellan , ser gregor clegane. realizing that she has missed her chance to kill tywin , arya pressures the assassin jaqen h'ghar into aiding her escape from harrenhal. she forces him to help her by giving him his own name as the third death he promised. she will only revoke his name when he agrees to break her and her friends out of the fortress. arya , hot pie , and gendry walk through the gates at midnight , as jaqen instructed. they escape harrenhal , realizing that the guards have been killed.
robb is furious when he learns that his mother catelyn stark has freed his prized captive ser jaime lannister. he tells her that she has betrayed him and orders her kept under guard. catelyn has sent brienne of tarth to escort jaime to king's landing to exchange him for her daughters , sansa and arya. brienne uses a canoe to evade pursuit. robb plans to relieve winterfell by turning theon's men against him with an offer of mercy , issuing his orders to the bastard of the dreadfort through roose bolton. robb seeks solace in the arms of lady talisa maegyr , ignoring his betrothal to house frey.
 the prince of winterfell is the eighth episode of the second season of game of thrones. it is the eighteenth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 20 , 2012. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by co executive producer alan taylor.
theon holds the fort arya calls in her debt with jaqen robb is betrayed stannis and davos approach their destination. bran and rickon stark are revealed to be alive.

<Blackwater>

 in king's landing.
bronn singing with the lannister soldiers.
tyrion lannister leads the defense of king's landing against an assault by king stannis baratheon in the battle of the blackwater. he spends the night before the expected siege in bed with shae , telling her she can still leave the city. tyrion has varys provide him with a map of the tunnel network beneath the city. varys tells tyrion that he is all that stands between them and defeat. bronn drinks with the lannister men and has a confrontation with the hound , who is here first beginning to show the emotional and political fluctuations he will experience in the coming battle and which will shape his destiny for the rest of the series. stannis plans a naval assault aiming to overcome the city's small defensive fleet and land his troops at the walls of the city near the mud gate. .
 bronn fires the arrow that triggers the wildfire explosion.
from the battlements , joffrey berates tyrion , demanding to know why his ships are not meeting stannis's fleet. tyrion has anticipated his strategy and does not field his fleet. instead he sends a single ship filled with wildfire into the heart of stannis's fleet , leaking the volatile substance over the surface of the water. bronn has been awaiting tyrion's signal outside the city on the shores of the bay , and when tyrion tosses a torch from the battlements , bronn fires a flaming arrow triggering a massive , massive aquatic explosion. the ensuing conflagration devastates stannis's fleet and destroys the ship of his high captain , davos seaworth , as well as killing davos's son , matthos.
 sandor breaks down.
stannis responds by putting his men ashore inside row boats , landing further from the walls to avoid the still burning inner bay. with less protection for his troops he predicts that thousands will die. he leads the assault personally and is the first to reach the walls. tyrion orders sandor clegane to lead a sortie beyond the mud gate to repel the attackers. sandor does as asked but is terrified by the fire and breaks down emotionally. ser lancel lannister accompanies him and is wounded by an arrow. bronn joins the fight in time to save the hound's life. the hound retreats after losing half of his men and refuses to go out again. he demands wine and walks away from the battle and his place in the kingsguard , after saying in the presence of all , including the king , fuck the kings guard. fuck the city. fuck the king.
queen regent cersei lannister offers protection to the ladies of the court in maegor's holdfast. she had earlier obtained essence of nightshade which is deadly unless taken in tiny amounts from grand maester pycelle and keeps the headsman ser ilyn payne at her side at all times , preparing for the worst. she drinks wine heavily during the assault and seems , to simultaneously torment and mother her captive , sansa stark , with a sort of cynical feminism involving dire descriptions of the rapes that will occur if the city falls. she also begins to question shae , who seems to her perhaps an unlikely handmaiden. when lancel comes to tell her that stannis has reached the walls cersei orders him to bring joffrey back to the red keep , ignoring his protests that it would damage morale.
 tyrion rallies the troops.
joffrey willingly leaves the defensive line with lancel and charges ser mandon moore and ser boros blount of the kingsguard to fight in the king's name. the gold cloaks' morale is broken by his departure. tyrion steels himself to lead a sortie of his own. he rallies his men by telling them to fight for their city , their homes and their women , if not for their king and utters his famous line , those are brave men are knocking at our door. let's go kill them he leads his men through the tunnels beneath the city and is able to defeat stannis's troops manning a battering ram at the mud gate. tyrion is betrayed by ser mandon while fighting against a group of reinforcements. mandon slashes tyrion across the face with his sword. before he can strike tyrion again , tyrion's squire podrick payne kills ser mandon from behind with his spear. tyrion , barely conscious and held by podrick watches a battle that seems lost.
 lancel wounded by arrow to shoulder.
lancel returns to cersei to warn that they are defeated unless joffrey returns. when lancel tries to be firm with her , cersei ignores his counsel , pushes him out of the way deliberately causing him pain by hitting his injured side , and storms out. sansa tries to keep up the morale of the other women , frightened by cersei's sudden departure. sansa leads them in singing a hymn. cersei has taken tommen to the throne room. she sits with him on the iron throne , and tells him a story about a young lion and how it did not need to fear other beasts of the forest , the wolf and the stag. as she does this , she readies the poison for herself and for her son. shae tells sansa to go to her chambers , lock herself in , and await stannis , as he would not harm her , but ser ilyn might. sansa finds the hound waiting in her room. he offers to take her north to winterfell , but she says she will be safe there when stannis takes the throne. .
 cersei and tommen on the iron throne as the battle rages.
the hound scares sansa , but tells her to look at him , saying that since the world is made up of killers like stannis , her father , her brother robb , and he himself , she better get used to looking at them. though he promises to protect her , she is still too afraid of him to go with him. cersei sits on the iron throne and prepares to poison tommen in order to prevent him from being taken captive.
 tywin and loras lead their victorious forces into the throne room.
the forces of tywin lannister and , it is revealed , his new allies in house tyrell join the battle. their cavalry charge is led by a warrior dressed in the armor of renly baratheon and it decimates stannis's army. the survivors flee to their ships. stannis is dragged from the battle by his guards , screaming for his men to stand and fight. tyrion collapses into unconsciousness as the battle turns in the crown's favor. tywin bursts into the throne room and announces their victory , just in time to stop cersei from killing tommen. ser loras tyrell reveals himself as the knight wearing renly's armor.
 blackwater is the ninth episode of the second season of game of thrones. it is the nineteenth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 27 , 2012. it was written by co executive producer and writer of the novels george r.r. martin and directed by neil marshall.
a massive battle rages for control of king's landing and the iron throne.

<Valar Morghulis>

 in the seven kingdoms.
tyrion lannister convalesces from the wound he suffered during the battle of the blackwater at the hands of ser mandon moore. he is informed by a gloating grand maester pycelle that he is no longer acting hand of the king , as his father tywin lannister has returned to the city and will take over his duties as hand. varys visits and tells him that bronn has been relieved of his command of the gold cloaks and his hill tribesmen have gone home with their plunder tyrion has lost all of his power. varys thanks tyrion for his part in defending the city , noting that no one else will do so. shae urges tyrion to leave with her for pentos , but he refuses.
king joffrey rewards those who served him well in the battle. lord tywin lannister is officially named hand of the king and savior of the city. littlefinger is awarded harrenhal for brokering the alliance between houses lannister and tyrell. loras tyrell asks that joffrey wed his sister margaery to unite their houses. queen cersei lannister and pycelle make a show of convincing joffrey to set aside his betrothal to sansa stark , given the treachery of house stark. joffrey plays along and agrees to wed margaery. in private , sansa is overjoyed to be free , until littlefinger points out that it will not stop joffrey from tormenting her however , he does assure her that he will help her escape , for the sake of her mother.
 jaime recognized by stark men.
following his defeat at the blackwater , stannis baratheon has retreated back to dragonstone. he rages at melisandre for not foreseeing his defeat , despite her claims to see the future. melisandre insists that the lord of light only allows her glimpses and that stannis cannot abandon the war because of a single defeat. stannis accuses her of lying to him , of knowing nothing about war and angrily begins to strangle her. when melisandre insists her god is in him , stannis releases her , realizing she is talking about the creature they created to murder his brother. melisandre tells stannis he will betray his men , his family and his beliefs but in the end , it will be worth it she assures stannis that he is the lord's chosen and he will be king. stannis is skeptical , but melisandre has him look into a brazier stannis appears to have visions , restoring his faith in the red priestess.
in the westerlands , king robb stark speaks with his mother lady catelyn regarding his love affair with the woman talisa. catelyn urges robb to remember his vow to wed a daughter of house frey , or face severe consequences. she says that she and robb's father didn't love each other when they first married , but that he grew to love her over time. she predicts that robb and his betrothed might build a similar love over time. robb disregards her advice and marries talisa in private that night.
traveling east to king's landing , brienne of tarth and jaime lannister come upon the bodies of three women , hanged by stark soldiers for having slept with lannister soldiers. when the men return , the pair try to lie their way out of the situation. jaime is recognized and brienne chose to kill the soldiers. in so doing she reveals her prowess as a fighter to jaime. when jaime reminds her that she killed stark men , brienne responds that she does not serve house stark , but catelyn stark.
in winterfell , theon greyjoy is besieged by a northern army under command of roose bolton's bastard son. maester luwin tells theon his chances of holding the castle with only twenty men are negligible. luwin suggests that theon join the night's watch , gaining a chance to redeem himself. when theon refuses fearing that jon snow will kill him for his betrayal and tries to rally his men for battle , they betray him dagmer knocks theon out. when luwin tries to intervene , dagmer stabs him with a spear. the ironmen place a bag on theon and depart winterfell to deliver him to the bolton army.
some time later , bran , rickon , osha and hodor emerge from their hiding place in winterfell's crypts and find the castle burning. they discover the dying luwin in the godswood. he insists that the boys must go north to the wall , as there are too many enemies in the south and jon will be able to keep them safe and tell their mother of their survival. luwin affirms his pride at having served the starks before asking osha to give him a quick death.
traveling away from harrenhal , arya , gendry and hot pie cross paths with jaqen h'ghar , who has been waiting for them. he offers to take arya with him to braavos , where she can learn his skills of killing and find a way to kill those on her list. she declines , wanting to be reunited with her family. jaqen gives her an iron coin and the words valar morghulis , telling her to speak them to any man from braavos should she ever need to find him again. jaqen bids arya farewell , using her real name , and departs , changing his face to that of a different man as he leaves.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
daenerys in her vision of the iron throne room.
daenerys targaryen arrives at house of the undying and is magically separated from jorah and kovarro. she finds herself in an empty circular room with many doors. she chooses one and opens it. she is presented with tempting visions. first the snowy , ruined throne room of king's landing where she turns away from the iron throne. she then walks through the gates of the wall surrounded by more snow , and into drogo's tent. she finds drogo and what would have been her infant son rhaego. they talk about whose dream they are in , and daenerys silently leaves after touching rhaego's hair. she returns to the room with many doors and finds her dragons chained to a pedestal in front of her. pyat pree appears and explains that she and her brood are the source of his restored magic. daenerys is also chained by pyat's magic. the young queen is unconcerned however , and simply regards pree with a cool , almost lazy gaze. she calmly utters a single word dracarys after a couple of tries , all three dragons unleash their fiery breath , and pyat pree is incinerated.
daenerys knows that xaro has betrayed her. she returns to his palace to confront him and finds doreah in bed with him. she takes his key and uses it to open his valyrian stone vault. she is surprised when it is empty , but observes that this proves something can easily come from nothing. on her orders , doreah and xaro are locked into the empty vault to die , their pleas cut off by the closing door. daenerys salvages enough from xaro's household to buy a ship. on jorah's orders , the dothraki seize xaro's gold and jewels while daenerys triumphantly watches with her three dragons.
b.
 beyond the wall.
the king beyond the wall's camp.
jon snow and qhorin halfhand are marched towards the camp of the king beyond the wall , mance rayder , as captives of the lord of bones. qhorin realizes that he will have to sacrifice himself in order to facilitate the ruse of jon deserting to the wildlings , so he stuns one of his captors and acquires a sword , attacking jon with the seeming intention of killing him for treachery. the lord of bones lets them fight , and ygritte gives jon back his sword. qhorin enrages jon by insulting his parentage. after a fierce duel , jon mortally wounds qhorin per qhorin's own instructions , who whispers to jon we are the watchers on the wall before he breathes his last , signalling to him that he has done the right thing and reminding jon that he must find out all he can about the wildlings' plans and get back to the wall. by killing qhorin , the wildlings believe jon has betrayed his oath and release him. impressed , the lord of bones cuts jon free. ygritte shows him their vast army , gathering in a valley below. she promises to take him to their king and , with no other choice , jon follows her.
at the fist of the first men , sam , grenn and edd are foraging for fuel when they hear three horn blasts the warning call for white walkers. the three run back to the fist. sam is left behind , caught in a sudden blizzard. seeing shadowy figures moving through the blowing snow , sam hides behind a rock and watches as dozens of wights walk past him , led by a white walker riding an undead horse wight. sam cowers in fear , but the white walker seemingly ignores him. raising a spear with a blade of ice , the creature gives a piercing shriek , and the army of wights and white walkers , numbering several hundred , advances on the fist.
 valar morghulis is the tenth and final episode of the second season of game of thrones. it is the twentieth episode of the series overall. it premiered on june 3 , 2012. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by co executive producer alan taylor.
tyrion awakens to a changed situation. king joffrey doles out rewards to his subjects. as theon stirs his men to action , luwin offers some final advice. brienne silences jaime arya receives a gift from jaqen dany goes to a strange place jon proves himself to qhorin.

<Valar Dohaeris>

 beyond the wall.
ghost attacks a wight.
in a prologue scene , shouts and sword clashes are heard in the darkness as the white walkers and their army of undead wights attack the men of the night's watch off screen in the battle of the fist of the first men. samwell tarly is then seen alive , wandering through a blizzard in search of safety. he sees another man of the night's watch up ahead but soon finds that he has been decapitated and his head placed in his own hands. just then , a wight approaches sam and is about to attack him with an axe when the direwolf ghost knocks it down. ghost continues to tear at its legs as it pulls itself forward inch by inch towards sam. the wight suddenly burst into flame , destroyed by a torch wielded by lord commander jeor mormont , killing it. mormont has managed to rally the few dozen survivors out of his original three hundred men at the fist of the first men. mormont is angry that sam wasn't able to send off any messenger ravens in the confusion of the attack. mormont announces that they must retreat back to the wall , not simply to save their own lives but because castle black and the rest of westeros must be warned of the coming threat otherwise everyone they've ever known will die.
meanwhile , jon snow is led by ygritte and the lord of bones into the main wildling camp in the frostfangs mountains. it is not simply an army camp almost all of wildling society is on the move to escape the white walkers , including women and children. as they enter the camp , jon is shocked to see a real life giant walk past. many of the wildlings are surprised to see jon in his all black night's watch clothing and shout crow at his approach. several young boys pelt jon with ice and small stones , but ygritte shoos them away.
 giant carrying mammoth bones.
jon is led into the tent of king beyond the wall mance rayder , where the lord of bones explains that he is ned stark's bastard son to a large man with a heavy beard who is eating chicken by the fire. he says that he doesn't care , but his interest is piqued on hearing that jon killed qhorin halfhand. as they talk , jon kneels before the man , whom he assumes to be mance rayder , and calls him your grace as he would a king south of the wall. all the wildlings to burst into laughter their society does not bother with such ceremony and because the man actually isn't mance , but his lieutenant tormund giantsbane. mance himself is an unassuming man sitting in a corner , who then introduces himself and tells jon to stand , as no man kneels before another among the free folk , as they do not recognize a class of nobility in their culture.
mance says he is glad that jon killed qhorin , as he had killed many of mance's wildlings , though he notes that qhorin was his brother once , back when he was a member of the night's watch and qhorin had a whole hand. mance asks jon why he wants to join them. he replies that he wants to be free , but mance thinks he just wants to be a hero. jon then explains that when the night's watch camped at craster's keep , he saw craster leave his newborn son in the woods as an offering , and the inhuman creature that took it. jon says that he wants to leave the night's watch because he is disgusted that mormont already knew what craster was doing but did nothing to stop it. jon states that the first men he is descended from defeated the white walkers once during the long night , and that now he wants to fight for the side who fights for the living. mance is satisfied and advises jon to get a new cloak.
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
bronn confronts two kingsguard.
in king's landing , king joffrey baratheon's forces stand victorious after the battle of the blackwater. house lannister's new allies house tyrell begin to settle into the capital. tywin lannister bluntly tells his son tyrion that he intends to disinherit him. this comes as a shock , because his older brother jaime gave up all right to inherit his father's lands when he joined the kingsguard , and tyrion is rightfully the next in line of succession. for that matter , despite all evidence to the contrary , tywin refuses to believe that tyrion was in any way helpful in the defense of the city or during his months as acting hand of the king. instead , tywin obstinately maintains his belief that tyrion is a whore mongering , drunken , ill made , spiteful little creature , and that he is lying about all of his accomplishments out of envy. tywin is particularly insulted that tyrion brought his mistress , shae , to the capital when tywin explicitly told him not to , which makes tywin convince himself that tyrion was in bed with shae most of the time while events spiraled out of control. when tyrion asks why his father is doing this , tywin is shocked as if tyrion insulted him , and says it should be obvious as tyrion killed his mother joanna in childbirth so that he might enter the world. tywin says that the laws of men say he has to let tyrion use his family name , but that he wishes he could prove tyrion wasn't his son , so his very existence would not continue to make a mockery out of the name lannister which he stole from tywin. tyrion fumes at the situation to his sellsword bronn , who has recently been knighted as a reward for his service in the battle of the blackwater. he now styles himself as ser bronn of the blackwater , and while possessing no lands , wealth , or title , this drastically elevates his social standing and in his mind , his pay.
meanwhile , joffrey's ride back from the great sept of baelor in a heavily guarded palanquin is interrupted when his betrothed , lady margaery tyrell , stops the procession in flea bottom unexpectedly. margaery shocks the guards and bewilders joffrey by getting out and exploring , eventually arriving at an orphanage and interacting with the children. meanwhile , her servants pass out bread and toys , earning her the love of flea bottom's smallfolk. that evening , joffrey and cersei visit margaery and her brother loras tyrell for a small dinner party. cersei admonishes margaery's boldness and reminds her that her impromptu charity work took place on the same streets where the royal party was assaulted weeks earlier.
when joffrey naively defends margaery and criticizes his mother , cersei realizes that she is on the verge of being outmaneuvered. cersei only knows how to rule through fear , but margaery knows how to win the love of the people she rules over , a skill cersei lacks. sansa stark and shae sit on the docks watching ships arrive and depart. sansa wants to play a game making up stories about where the ships are headed , but shae , in typical fashion , is uninterested. petyr baelish arrives to speak with sansa.
she displays an eagerness to leave as soon as possible. he suggests that when he next leaves the capital by sea , she might be able to stow away. sansa advises him not to give her too many details since she is a terrible liar. meanwhile , ros , who seems to be acting as littlefinger's aide , reminisces about the day sansa was born , when all the bells in winterfell were rung in celebration. she asks shae to look out for sansa , particularly in regards to littlefinger.
on dragonstone , king stannis baratheon's shattered forces regroup after being almost totally destroyed in the battle of the blackwater. davos seaworth is rescued from the sea by salladhor saan after being thrown overboard by the wildfire blast in the battle. forlorn over the death of his son matthos , davos feels that melisandre has led stannis to disaster , and is horrified to hear from salladhor that she has begun to conduct human sacrifices. after the defeated remnant of stannis' forces returned to the island , melisandre ordered any who spoke out against her to be burned alive as offerings to the lord of light. davos convinces salladhor to bring him to dragonstone. he finds stannis despondent , sitting in the chamber of the painted table alone with melisandre. davos openly calls melisandre his enemy , condemns her for conducting human sacrifices , and says she is leading stannis astray. she counters that it was davos who urged stannis not to bring her to the battle , and implies that it was actually davos' fault that thousands of their men burned to death , including his own son. at the mention of his son davos draws a knife on her in a fit of anger , but he is restrained by the guards , and stannis orders him put in the dungeon.
 davos tries to kill melisandre.
in the riverlands , the morale of king robb stark's army is starting to wane. they have not had a significant victory since the battle of oxcross months ago , and the news of the lannisters' victory over stannis and new alliance with the tyrells piles bad news upon bad news. robb has won every battle he has ever fought , but the lannisters finally realized it was too difficult to try to attack him head on , so they have shifted to the new strategy of simply fleeing ahead of robb's army. robb's forces have won many small but also insignificant minor victories , as the lannisters are now determined to simply wait robb out and exhaust his army far from home while they slowly rebuild their own numbers and gain new allies. in frustration , robb launches a new offensive to the east which takes the great castle of harrenhal , which tywin had been using it as the main lannister forward base in the riverlands during the first year of the war. however , robb does not find the decisive victory he was hoping for tywin withdrew his garrison to king's landing to counter the attack by stannis , and didn't even bother wasting any men on a token defense of the castle. robb and his forces are further demoralized to find that the lannisters massacred two hundred northern and riverlands prisoners of war before they left , and the courtyards are choked with piles of bodies. they do find one survivor , a maester named qyburn.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
drogon roasts a fish.
daenerys targaryen's ship arrives at the city of astapor in slaver's bay after leaving qarth. daenerys' dragons are continuing to grow , and are now about the size of small dogs. they fly about their ship as it approaches the city , plucking fish from the sea and roasting them in mid air with their fire breath.she notes that they are still not big enough to use as weapons of war to invade westeros with , and that she needs an army. ser jorah mormont notes that the elite warrior eunuchs produced in astapor , known as the unsullied , are said to be among the finest soldiers in the world. daenerys stresses that they are slave soldiers , a distinction which may make some look on her negatively in westeros where slavery is illegal , but jorah says they have no better ideas for how to acquire an army. daenerys expresses interest in expanding her tiny dothraki khalasar most of them are seasick because the dothraki have never traveled on ships before , but jorah says that other dothraki will only join her if they think she is strong , and for that she needs an army.
upon arriving at astapor , daenerys is given a tour of the unsullied barracks by the unsullied's owner , kraznys mo nakloz , with his slave girl missandei translating his low valyrian into the common tongue of westeros for daenerys. they explain that the unsullied are trained for battle from the age of five , and that only one in four recruits survives the training. kraznys also demonstrates that the unsullied do not fear pain or death by slicing off the nipple of one soldier much to daenerys's disgust , who not only shows no sign of pain , but thanks the slavemaster for the opportunity to serve him. kraznys goes on to explain that the unsullied are trained to show no mercy or weakness by killing a newborn slave child in front of its mother at the end of their training. daenerys is outraged by this , but still asks how many unsullied are available. she is told there are eight thousand soldiers for sale and that she has until the next day to make a decision.
en route back to their ship , ser jorah urges that daenerys should purchase the unsullied , arguing that under her command , these slave soldiers will have a far better quality of life serving her than they would under kraznys and his ilk. daenerys is distracted by a playing child following her and jorah , and neither notice a man in a hooded black cloak following them , armed with a dagger. .
 barristan saves daenerys from a deadly manticore.
the child offers a gift to daenerys a wooden ball but as she picks it up , the hooded stranger knocks it out of her hands ser jorah grabs the stranger and their struggle knocks daenerys to the ground , where to her horror , the ball cracks in half and a manticore emerges to attack. before the creature can harm daenerys with its lethal sting , the stranger impales it with his dagger and charges at the child , who hisses in a reptilian manner , baring teeth and features reminiscent of pyat pree , and uses magic to escape. daenerys realizes the assassin was likely an agent of the surviving warlocks of qarth.
turning her attention to her savior , daenerys is surprised when the man addresses her as his queen and removes his hood. she asks if jorah knows the man. a stunned jorah admits he does the stranger before them is one of the most skilled fighters in westeros ser barristan selmy , lord commander of robert baratheon's kingsguard. falling to his knees , ser barristan explains that following robert's death and his dismissal by joffrey , he has been searching for daenerys stormborn , to beg her forgiveness and offer his service , hoping to make amends for failing house targaryen during and after robert's rebellion , when he served in her father's kingsguard. barristan hails her as the rightful queen and asks to serve in her queensguard.
 valar dohaeris is the first episode of the third season of game of thrones. it is the twenty first episode of the series overall.
jon is brought before mance rayder , the king beyond the wall , while the night's watch survivors retreat south. in king's landing , tyrion asks for his reward , littlefinger offers sansa a way out , and cersei hosts a dinner for the royal family. dany sails into slaver's bay.

<Dark Wings, Dark Words>

 beyond the wall.
jon snow marches slowly south with the free folk army of king beyond the wall mance rayder. mance explains that his army is a diverse force , formed of about ninety different groups or clans of wildlings , who speak seven different languages , and have numerous internal rivalries. however , he managed to unite them all by telling them the truth that they will all die if they remain north of the wall. mance brings jon to one of his scouts , orell. he is sitting silently with his eyes rolled back as an eagle circles above him. mance says that he is a warg , and ygritte is surprised that jon doesn't know what that is. mance explains that a warg is a person who is capable of entering the mind of an animal , seeing what it sees and even controlling its actions. orell controls his menagerie to scout miles ahead. mance asks him what he has seen , and orell says he saw the fist of the first men and many dead crows .
 mormont assigns rast care of tarly.
lord commander jeor mormont of the night's watch leads the few survivors of the slaughter at the battle of the fist of the first men south in hope of reaching the wall. samwell tarly is exhausted and collapses. rast is annoyed that sam hid during the battle , and thinks they should leave him because he's slowing them down. sam is upset that grenn and edd abandoned him at the start of the attack , although they refuse to leave him now. mormont tells sam that he has to keep moving , and sternly forbids sam to die. mormont orders rast to keep sam alive until they reach the wall on pain of death.
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
bran stark dreams that he is walking and hunting in the woods he sees the mysterious three eyed raven again. as he aims his bow , he relives his memories of when he was practicing archery with jon and robb , and hears the voice of his father eddard. bran shoots at the raven but misses. a young stranger appears. the boy tells bran that he cannot shoot the raven , because he is the raven. bran awakens suddenly , worrying hodor for a moment but he says that he is fine. osha says they have enough problems without dark dreams. bran , rickon , osha , hodor , and the direwolves summer and shaggydog continue to head north from winterfell to the wall.
later , the same boy from the dream approaches their camp in the woods unarmed. summer snarls at him initially but then sniffs his hand and turns away. osha comes up behind the boy with a sharpened wooden spear , only for the boy's sister to surprise osha and put a knife to her throat. the boy introduces himself as jojen reed , and his sister as meera reed. house reed are loyal bannermen of house stark , and they have been searching for bran and rickon so that they can protect them.
when they are on the move again , jojen and bran discuss his wolf dreams. jojen explains that bran himself is a warg. jojen says that it starts out as vivid dreams seeing the world through his wolf's eyes , but with practice he will be able to consciously enter the mind of his wolf and control its actions. bran asks if prophetic dreams are part of being a warg , but jojen explains that's a different , related ability. the sight allows those who possess it to see events that haven't happened yet , or events that happened long before they were born , or events happening now but thousands of miles away. jojen confirms that bran's dream of his father eddard the day he died was an example of the sight , and that jojen himself had a similar dream the same day. he says that when he told his father , lord howland reed , he openly wept , for he correctly realized that his son's dream signified that eddard was dead. bran says that howland was a great friend of his father eddard's who fought alongside him during robert's rebellion. jojen says that howland doesn't like to talk about the war much. jojen confirms that bran wasn't simply experiencing a vision of jojen in his earlier dream , but that he reached out with his mind to contact bran in his dream , and that he remembers seeing the three eyed raven too.
at an indeterminate location , theon greyjoy has been chained up in a dungeon after being knocked out before the sack of winterfell. men come in , some wearing ironborn clothing , and interrogate him. when he asks what they want , one of his captors says he wants to do this and starts prying his fingernails off with a knife. later they use a foot press to torture him , while also slowly turning a screw into his foot until it is bleeding freely , repeatedly asking him why he captured winterfell , but apparently not caring about the answers he gives. theon at first tells them the simple truth that he wanted to take and hold winterfell while the north was vunerable to impress his father , then starts frantically lying , saying he hates the starks and is their enemy , desperately trying to figure out what his captors want him to tell them. when the guards leave they put a bag over his head. a servant boy comes over to theon and unwinds the foot press , and tells him that he has been sent by his sister yara to rescue him. however , he must wait until nightfall when the castle is asleep , so he puts the bag back on and the desperate theon is left alone crying for help.
king joffrey baratheon is being fitted for new clothes in his chambers , in preparation for his upcoming wedding to margaery tyrell. his mother cersei begins to criticize margaery , saying that she is only charitable to the poor to build up support for herself , and also saying that she thinks she dresses like a harlot. however , joffrey barely tolerates his mother's chiding and dismissively tells her off.
shae dresses sansa stark in her chambers , and warns sansa about petyr littlefinger baelish. she points out that baelish has offered to help sansa for nothing in return , which probably means that he's after something. sansa naively says that he's an old friend of her mother's , believing that should be reason enough. shae suggests that baelish is actually sexually attracted to sansa. this disturbs sansa , but she thinks it is simply impossible , as baelish is so much older than her. shae continues to warn sansa that baelish is manipulative and men usually only want one thing from pretty young ladies , and love often isn't what they're after. sansa warns the tyrells that joffrey is a monster.
ser loras tyrell arrives at the door and escorts sansa to the gardens to meet with margaery and their grandmother , lady olenna tyrell. sansa reminds loras that they met once before at the tourney of the hand , and he takes his leave after introducing her. lady olenna is a cunning and intelligent woman who speaks her mind , and bluntly says that her son mace was a fool for supporting renly baratheon's claim to the throne , though margaery speaks well of renly. lady olenna insists that sansa tell her the truth about what joffrey is like , as he is to marry margaery. sansa is initially reluctant , but when olenna mentions her father , sansa breaks down and , her eyes blazing , angrily recounts how joffrey had said he would show her father mercy , only to behead him in front of her , and how he then took her up to the wall and forced her to look at her father's head on a spike and claim him providing her father with a swift death was mercy . realizing what she has just been saying , sansa nervously attempts to backtrack. olenna continues to prod sansa as she fidgets around , and it becomes obvious that she is visibly afraid about being overheard. after enough times of olenna insisting that she can trust her not to repeat what she says , sansa blurts out that joffrey is a monster . olenna is disappointed , but unsurprised , given the rumors that have been circulating about joffrey's public outbursts. sansa is worried that this means the tyrells will cancel their proposed marriage alliance meaning sansa will be stuck with joffrey again , but olenna assures her that her son mace is too intent on margaery entering into a royal marriage to cancel it for anything.
shae sneaks into tyrion lannister's new chambers. he warns her that his father threatened to kill her if he found her with him again , and that his father follows through on such threats. undeterred , shae starts undressing tyrion , and asks him for a favor to protect sansa from baelish. tyrion says that he no longer has enough power or influence to attempt to do that , though shae accuses him of being attracted to sansa , which he cheerfully denies. it also comes out that tyrion had sex with ros back in the north , though tyrion points out it was before he met shae. they playfully bicker about it as they start having sex.
 margaery finds a way to bond with joffrey.
margaery is summoned to joffrey's chambers to see if she needs anything before he leaves on a hunting trip. while joffrey has previously been easy for margaery to manipulate , cersei was apparently able to plant one seed of doubt in his mind the fact that margaery was married to his uncle renly and thus , already had sex with another man , whom cersei described as a traitor and known degenerate . when questioned , margaery says that she was ordered to marry a traitor as her family duty , but joffrey implies that this still means he must have had sex with her. joffrey angrily questions margaery about the relationship and she delicately placates him by feigning demure shyness and painting herself as a dutiful , but frustrated , bride. she uses the rumors about renly's homosexuality to redirect joffrey's anger , stating that renly always found excuses to avoid sex , but , in one instance , drunkenly suggested something that sounded very painful and could not possibly result in children , which draws her new fiance's sympathy. margaery eventually manages to divert attention to the new custom crossbow joffrey's had made for his excursion. it quickly becomes apparent that joffrey is excited by violence and sadism , so she flirts with him by complimenting the crossbow and musing about killing something herself. easily played , joffrey offers to take her with him to share in the excitement of killing something.
king robb stark settles into the council chamber at harrenhal with his wife queen talisa. lord roose bolton interrupts them with two messenger raven missives , each of which brings bad news. first , robb's maternal grandfather hoster tully has finally died after a long illness at his castle of riverrun. second , roose delivers a letter from his bastard son ramsay snow , stating that the ironborn torched winterfell and put all of its inhabitants to the sword , and then fled all before his force arrived there. there has been no sighting of bran or rickon , and though robb hopes that they are still alive , there is a strong possibility that they are dead. moreover , there has been no word of theon , and if he took the boys captive the greyjoys haven't sent out any demands. this double blow reduces catelyn stark to tears and she laments that she had not seen her father in years. she is horrified at the thought that bran and rickon were in danger while she was away and could not protect them , and are now likely dead.
robb leaves roose in command of harrenhal with a detachment of the northern army while robb leads his main host back across the riverlands to riverrun. lord rickard karstark angrily says that this is a waste of time , though robb points out that catelyn's brother and his uncle , edmure tully , is now lord of riverrun and his levies will reinforce their army. karstark maintains that unless edmure has been breeding soldiers like rabbits , it will make no difference with their new tyrell allies , the lannisters now outnumber them over two to one. robb asks if karstark has lost faith in their cause , and karstark says he still believes in revenge. however , the fact that robb lost his home castle makes him seem vulnerable in the eyes of his bannermen , and many no longer believe in robb as they once did. lord karstark asks to speak his mind as if he wasn't already , and says that he thinks robb lost the war the day he married talisa , a political nobody , throwing away any opportunity to forge marriage alliances with badly needed allies , specifically breaking his promise to enter into a marriage alliance with house frey.
talisa notices that catelyn is making a prayer wheel for the faith of the seven , and offers to help. catelyn explains that they can only be made by mothers who are praying for the welfare of their children. catelyn reveals that she has only made them twice before , one of which was when she was praying for bran to wake from his coma , which worked after a fashion , as he did survive though he lost the use of his legs. talisa asks after the other time , and catelyn says that when they were younger , one of the boys had a pox , and maester luwin said that if he survived the night he would be all right , but that it would be a long night. catelyn explains that the boy was jon snow , and at first the thought that jon would conveniently die of natural causes made her inwardly pray to the seven for his end. however , catelyn then became horrified at herself for thinking such a thing , particularly as jon was an innocent child , and the person catelyn really hated was jon's unidentified mother. so she made a prayer wheel and stayed up with him all night , praying to the gods that if they forgave her earlier wish that jon would die , she promised she would urge eddard to have jon legitimized as a stark and she would raise him as her own son. jon recovered , however , catelyn did not keep her promise. in grief at the death of her father and apparent death of her two youngest sons , and her continued grief at losing eddard , catelyn says the gods are punishing her misconduct with this war.
not too far away in the riverlands , arya stark , gendry , and hot pie are heading north from harrenhal , planning to eventually reach the red fork of the trident river and then follow it west to her grandfather's castle seat at riverrun. off screen , arya explained to the boys how jaqen h'ghar helped them escape because he offered that he would kill any three people she named. gendry loudly criticizes arya , in disbelief that she used up two of the names on minor lannister guards when she could have said someone like king joffrey or tywin lannister and ended the entire war , at which arya gets quite defensive. however , as they advance in the forest , they run into a scouting party of the brotherhood without banners , a group of outlaws , whose leader thoros of myr they hear singing the rains of castamere as they approach. they recognize them as the group the lannister torturers were asking about at harrenhal. thoros seems a friendly sort , and they make the children come with them. they later give them food and drink at a local inn. gendry says he used to work as a smith in king's landing for tobho mott , whom thoros recognizes but says he charged double what the other smiths did gendry counters that's because it was double the quality. arya insists that she knows how to use a sword despite thoros' disbelief , but when she tries to mock fence with him he quickly disarms her. other members of the brotherhood return to the inn with a captive sandor the hound clegane. as thoros trades insults with sandor , arya tries to leave , but the hound stops her in astonishment and asks what in seven hells they're doing with the stark bitch , revealing her identity to all.
finally , jaime lannister and brienne of tarth are slowly making their way across country through the riverlands , heading to king's landing intending to make the prisoner exchange for the stark girls really , just sansa . jaime continues to mock brienne along the way. brienne is wary enough not to let jaime out of her sight , even insisting on keeping him on his leash and watching while he urinates so he doesn't slip away. jaime deduces that brienne isn't from the north because he would have noticed her at winterfell when he visited there , so as she is from house tarth she must be a baratheon supporter. she angrily denies supporting stannis , thus confirming that she served renly. jaime accurately deduces that she fancied renly , but points out that renly wasn't attracted to women so much as he was to loras. brienne says she doesn't want to hear his filthy lies , but he says that he knew renly better than she did , reminding her that both of them spent the last 17 years living in the red keep , ever since robert's rebellion when renly was just a child prancing down the halls. jaime insists that renly's homosexuality was actually the worst kept secret at court if she thinks he's lying. he continues to casually mock renly which makes brienne grab him , but he relents and says he doesn't particularly care that renly loved loras , as he feels people aren't free to choose the ones they love which he knows better than most . they come across a farmer with a heavily laden mule , who notices that they're cutting cross country and avoiding the major roads , and suspects that they're avoiding soldiers. jaime tells brienne that he suspects the man is a scout meant to intercept them , and even if he isn't he can still spread word he saw them. he urges her to kill the man , but she refuses.
 brienne gives jaime a beatdown.
later , the pair have to cross a river , which means they can either attempt a dangerous fording or take the bridge , which will probably be watched. brienne takes the safer route of the bridge , but jaime manages to distract her long enough to take away her spare sword and cut his bonds. brienne and jaime enter into an extended sword fight on the bridge. jaime starts off very aggressively , putting brienne on the defensive. however , jaime's mobility is reduced because his hands are still manacled , and he is malnourished after having spent the past full year chained up in a cell. jaime begins to tire , and brienne wears him down further by making body blows with kicks and punches. after a protracted fight jaime finally slumps to the ground in exhaustion. just then , riders from house bolton arrive led by a man named locke. jaime asks if they want to negotiate , but locke says they'll have his head if he doesn't bring the kingslayer back to the king in the north , so there's not much jaime can do to dissuade him from taking them prisoner.
 dark wings , dark words is the second episode of the third season of game of thrones. it is the twenty second episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 7 , 2013. it was written by co executive producer vanessa taylor and directed by daniel minahan.
sansa stark is introduced to olenna tyrell and is incautious when questioned about king joffrey baratheon. shae asks tyrion lannister for help protecting sansa. jaime lannister provokes brienne into a duel but finds himself recaptured. arya stark crosses paths with the brotherhood without banners and is recognized by their new prisoner sandor clegane. ravens bring dark news to the king in the north at harrenhal his brothers are still missing and hoster tully has died. jon snow learns about wargs from the free folk. bran stark is surprised to meet new allies in the barren north.

<Walk of Punishment>

 across the narrow sea.
in astapor , daenerys , accompanied by ser jorah mormont and ser barristan selmy , walks along a sea wall known as the walk of punishment. here , any slave who showed insubordination of any type is strapped to a cross and left to die out in public , as a warning to all other slaves. daenerys offers a condemned man water , but he refuses to drink , saying he just wants to die quickly.
jorah and barristan continue to disagree on whether or not daenerys should purchase the unsullied. jorah insists that it is their only chance to get an army , but barristan believes this is not the honorable way , as slavery is illegal and abhorred in the seven kingdoms. jorah claims that not only will the slave soldiers be treated better in her service , but innocent people will also be spared in war because the unsullied only do as they are ordered. they have no human or masculine urges in their bodies , and therefore will not kill civilians or rape innocent women , unlike most male soldiers who would succumb to those urges in the heat of battle. barristan retorts that when her older brother rhaegar led his army in the battle of the trident , men fought and died for rhaegar because they believed in him , because they loved him not because they were slave soldiers whose free will had been stripped away. jorah responds that rhaegar indeed fought honorably and nobly , but that in the end rhaegar died. daenerys was born months after robert baratheon killed rhaegar at the battle of the trident , and only knew her cruel and half mad brother viserys , so she asks ser barristan if he knew rhaegar. selmy was a member of the targaryen kingsguard and thus knew rhaegar well he fought beside him and bled beside him at the trident. barristan says that rhaegar was the finest man he ever met , the last dragon. daenerys grows quiet and says she wishes she'd known her older brother , but that rhaegar was not the last dragon she is .
daenerys speaks with kraznys mo nakloz , as he shows her his slave soldiers , the unsullied. he repeatedly insults and mocks daenerys in his native tongue , leaving his slave translator missandei of naath to clean up his crude and very insulting words into more respectful language. at one point , she pauses , wondering how to twist a particularly coarse insult from kraznys , and daenerys notices her reluctance to directly translate.
daenerys says she will take all 8 , 000 unsullied soldiers , including those in training. kraznys laughs and retorts that she can barely afford 100 unsullied. daenerys surprises him by telling him she has dragons , and is willing to trade one. this offer stops kraznys in his tracks , yet daenerys repeatedly affirms that he may only have one of her dragons. they strike a deal that she may have all the unsullied soldiers in exchange for her biggest dragon. both jorah and selmy strongly object , and plead to daenerys that while soldiers are valuable , it is dragons that will ultimately win her the iron throne. she ignores them , and concludes the deal with kraznys , and also demands missandei as a token of faith. upon leaving the room , she scolds jorah and selmy , telling them that while she values their advice , they should never again question her in public.
daenerys speaks with missandei and asks her if she has a family she says no. daenerys tells her of the man who turned down her offer of water , and asks why he would simply say , let me die. missandei replies that in the afterlife , there is no master. thus , the man would rather be dead than alive in the slavers bay. daenerys proceeds to explain the dangers missandei will be facing in daenerys's service and asks if that will be a problem. missandei simply replies , valar morghulis all men must die . daenerys acknowledges the truth of the words , but quips , we are not men. .
b.
 beyond the wall.
horses' remains specially arranged by the white walkers.
the free folk army of king beyond the wall , mance rayder , including jon snow , arrive at the fist of the first men. they survey the bloody aftermath of assault on the night's watch by the white walkers and their army of undead wights. mance grimly remarks that the white walkers are always the artists the severed corpses of all of the watch's horses have been carefully arranged into a large scale , ceremonial spiral pattern. however , there is no sign of any human corpses which orell insists were there when he scouted ahead earlier by warging into his eagle , but have now vanished. jon says that there were three hundred men of the night's watch at the fist , and asks mance if mormont could still be alive. mance says that with mormont , it's possible he was able to escape , but that even if he did he and his men took quite a beating and are trapped miles away from the wall with the white walkers in close pursuit. mance warns jon that all of the missing corpses from the fist are no longer his friends and brothers from the night's watch , but have been resurrected as undead monsters who serve the white walkers.
mance orders tormund to take a force of twenty men to scale the wall to attack castle black from its exposed rear. the fortresses of the night's watch were purposefully built to only defend from attack over the wall , without defenses on their southern sides , so they wouldn't be a threat to the lords of the seven kingdoms. mance's plan is for tormund's small band to distract castle black by attacking their exposed southern side , at which point mance's main army will assault it from the north. tormund will know that mance is in position when his army makes a massive signal fire mance boasts that i'm going to make the biggest fire the north has ever seen mance orders tormund to take jon with him , as jon knows the layout of castle black , and it will prove a key test of his loyalty if it turns out that he won't really betray the night's watch , tormund can easily throw him off the wall to his death.
farther south , lord commander jeor mormont leads the ragged survivors of the night's watch expedition to craster's keep. craster mocks the survivors of the battle of the fist of the first men when they reach his keep. he initially wants to refuse them shelter until he notices some of them stroking their weapons. fearful that in desperation they might try to rush him , he relents. as the black brothers warm by his hearth , craster mocks them. craster insists that the black brothers should be grateful for his generosity , and that he is a godly man for helping them. mormont tensely questions craster's claim to be a godly man , but craster insists that he is to the real gods , the white walkers , who consume entire armies on their way to the wall but will spare craster for his loyalty. he admits that he's feeding his pigs better than them as pigs are valuable to him and half seriously suggests to his guests that they should eat the fat samwell tarly. he is also annoyed by gilly's loud wailing from birthing pains. sam leaves the main house to a birthing hut where he witnesses gilly giving birth with the aid of a few other women. to her horror , the baby is a boy. sam and gilly wordlessly realize that craster will want to sacrifice him to the white walkers.
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
brynden takes aim.
at riverrun in the riverlands , the castle seat of house tully , the funeral of the recently deceased lord hoster tully is held on the banks of the red fork of the trident river. king robb stark has arrived with the main force of the northern army , and he helps launch his maternal grandfather's funeral boat , along with hoster's younger brother brynden the blackfish tully. catelyn and robb's new wife queen talisa look on with the assembled crowd of bannermen on the dock. hoster's youngest child , catelyn's younger brother edmure tully , attempts to light the funeral boat on fire with a flaming arrow but fails three times. just as the boat is about to disappear around a bend of the river , brynden pushes his nephew out of the way and skillfully makes the shot. knowing his accuracy was true and the shot would hit the boat , the blackfish turns around to walk away dismissively showing up edmure at the same time as soon as he releases the arrow.
in catelyn's old chamber in the castle , she mourns with her uncle brynden over her father's death. she asks him if he made peace with his older brother , with whom he had been fighting for the past thirty years. brynden explains that he did on his deathbed hoster told him to stop calling himself the blackfish as it was a stupid joke created over thirty years ago by brynden to symbolize his bad relationship with his older brother , and it wasn't very funny to begin with. brynden emotionally joked back to his dying brother that people had been calling him blackfish for so long that they'd practically forgotten his real name. catelyn is happy that her uncle was able to make peace with her father before he passed , and is upset that she couldn't have been there. she reminisces that she watched from this window in her childhood whenever her father left , but now he won't be coming back. she tearfully wonders if her sons bran and rickon similarly watched at winterfell for her return when she failed to arrive to save them. brynden insists that neither he nor robb have given up hope that the boys may be alive and in hiding , and urges her to be strong for robb.
 tyrion is fascinated at pod's ability to pleasure women.
king robb , brynden , and edmure confer in riverrun's meeting room. the war is not going well for them. the lannisters have defeated their enemies in the south and secured king's landing from attack , as well as a marriage alliance with house tyrell. they have superior numbers , wealth , and strategic position. edmure begins to speak of his recent victory at the battle of stone mill , which pushed the lannister army under ser gregor clegane from the riverlands. robb and brynden , however , are furious with edmure their grand strategy was to lure tywin and gregor's armies into the westerlands , where they would be vulnerable , out of position , and unable to defend the capital against the baratheons. edmure's role in this was to offer token defense as a feint to lure the lannisters back west across the red fork of the trident. instead , by successfully attacking the lannisters at stone mill , edmure kept them penned in the riverlands , and thus close enough to king's landing that tywin was able to rush to the defense of the city at the battle of the blackwater. the starks' strategic position in the war has been ruined. edmure insists that they took valuable captives in the battle , willem and martyn lannister , but robb angrily points out that he didn't stop fighting because his sisters are held captive. considering that tywin didn't stop to negotiate when his own eldest son was captured , taking his younger nephews hostage will have no impact on the war. edmure tries to at least point out that they lost only two hundred men at stone mill and multiple lannister soldiers died for every man they lost , at which robb cuts him off and shouts that they need their men more than tywin lannister needs his who already outnumber the starks significantly . at this point , the lannisters are in such a good strategic position that they can afford to be patient , and grind down robb's forces through simple attrition.
in the prison cells at riverrun , queen talisa bandages the minor wounds of willem and martyn lannister. they are boys , only 14 and 15 years old. one of them asks if robb really transforms into a wolf eats the flesh of his enemies. talisa says yes but that he does not eat the flesh of children , except during the full moon. she asks a guard if it's currently a full moon , and reassures the now terrified child that he is safe.
 wolf bread.
at king's landing , tywin lannister calls the first meeting of the small council since he arrived in the city and assumed his position as hand of the king. he has the meeting place changed to a room next to his own quarters in the tower of the hand , asserting his dominance. tywin arrives early and has all of the council members called in at once. all of the seats are on one side of the table , as a non verbal test to see how each of them reacts around him. petyr baelish ambitiously pushes his way past everyone else to be the one who sits closest to tywin. varys rolls his eyes at littlefinger's naked ambition and lets him pass , content to sit in the second closest seat for now . grand maester pycelle , who is most focused on survival by avoiding direct conflict , doesn't try to fight over a better seat with either of them , instead quietly taking the third seat away from tywin. tywin's daughter cersei arrives to find the seats are all occupied , but not wanting to play that game and be relegated to a lowly position , she pulls up a chair so she is sitting at tywin's right hand , opposite littlefinger. tyrion is the only one who even mildly stands up to tywin's posturing , by not even trying to sit closest to tywin instead he takes a new chair and makes a point of noisily dragging it across the ground until it is positioned at the exact opposite end of the table from his father.
tywin is upset with the three advisors , noting that between them , they possess the greatest number of spies in the world , yet none of them can locate his son jaime , even though the entire northern army has heard of his escape. tywin asks what news there is of the war , and varys reports that robb has taken the bulk of his army to riverrun for his grandfather's funeral , while leaving lord roose bolton in command of harrenhal. varys makes a jab at littlefinger's recent , titular promotion as lord of harrenhal , noting that this makes roose bolton the current lord of harrenhal in practice if not in name. however , tywin says that roose can keep it , because the title alone is enough to give littlefinger the social standing to be a suitor to lady lysa arryn. littlefinger states that they have known each other since childhood , and lysa has always adored him , and thus she will soon remarry to him. pycelle notes that this will make littlefinger the acting lord paramount of the vale , an even more important position baelish is even wearing a more expensive tunic than usual , laced with gold , to reflect his new status . .
 theon is nearly raped by his torturer.
tywin states that this will confirm that the vale of arryn , which has been neutral in the war up to now , will not support robb stark , who is increasingly being hemmed in by enemies other marriage alliances , with house tyrell of the reach and house martell of dorne , combined with the crushing of the baratheons , have in turn secured the rest of southern westeros under lannister control . tyrion points out that if baelish departs for the vale that leaves a vacancy on the small council , and tywin reveals that he has appointed tyrion as the new master of coin to replace him. while this may seem like giving tyrion a position of relative power again , tyrion quickly points out that he has no prior experience in finance. with backhanded compliments , cersei makes it clear that this promotion is really intended to give him an opportunity to make mistakes he will be blamed for.
after the meeting , tyrion , podrick payne , and ser bronn drop by littlefinger's office in his brothel , where he keeps his ledgers. pod loads them all into a cart as ros flirts with him. littlefinger says it was the safest place to keep such records , but tyrion notes that his brothel hasn't been the safest place for bastards. baelish says he hopes tyrion does well in the position , as he owes him for securing the release of ros after cersei arrested her , mistaking her for shae but tyrion says it was just a misunderstanding. tyrion and bronn then lead pod into another room of the brothel , where tyrion says that he wants to reward him for saving his life during the battle of the blackwater he has paid for podrick who has never had sex with a woman to enjoy the services of not one , but three prostitutes marei , genna , and a contortionist named kayla one of only four women in the world who can properly perform a meereenese knot .
later , tyrion is reading through the financial records , and explains to bronn that not all is as baelish would like the court to think. bronn asks if he thinks littlefinger has been stealing to obtain the crown's money , but tyrion says the problem is more that he's been borrowing all of it. littlefinger always acted like he was a financial genius who could raise money seemingly out of nowhere , but in reality the iron throne is heavily in debt , and littlefinger procured enough money to balance the books every year by borrowing massive sums of money from foreign banks. .
 brienne is beaten down as the captors prepare to rape her.
in particular , much of their debt is owed to the iron bank of braavos , the largest bank in the free cities. tyrion warns bronn that when debtors to the iron bank cannot repay their loans , the iron bank will first refuse to give out new loans , and ultimately support rebellions against them. tyrion fears that if they can't repay the debt , the iron bank will eventually cut them off and start supporting robb stark or stannis baratheon. podrick then returns , with the money tyrion gave him to pay the prostitutes. tyrion is concerned that he lost heart and fled , but pod innocently says he did all sorts of things with the prostitutes they simply refused his offer of payment. impressed that the women would provide their services for free , tyrion and bronn ask pod to explain in detail what transpired , so they can take copious notes.
at dragonstone , king stannis baratheon speaks with melisandre as she prepares to depart by boat. he is worried that his enemies think he is defeated and are laughing at him , and that now even she is abandoning him. she assures him that she still thinks he is the lord's chosen , but she must travel to the riverlands to obtain something vital for his cause. stannis says that he wants her , and that he wants joffrey and robb dead , and asks her to make a son again with him like the shadow creature she conjured to assassinate renly . melisandre says that she cannot creating a shadow creature drains some of the fire of a man's life force , and she fears that creating another would kill stannis. over his protests , she explains that what she is seeking is even more powerful than a shadow creature , and will change his fortunes in this war , but she needs a king's blood to do it. stannis doesn't understand , but melisandre implies that she needs to burn a human sacrifice who possesses a king's blood as an offering to the lord of light. she can't kill stannis himself to achieve this , but as she points out , there are others with your blood in their veins any of his brother king robert's bastard children who managed to survive the purge.
at the inn at the crossroads in the riverlands , arya stark , gendry , and hot pie are still in the company of the brotherhood without banners , who are preparing to depart. gendry has finished fixing a steel breastplate which thoros puts on , and arya asks why gendry is helping them. thoros says that they're not prisoners , it's just that the war torn riverlands aren't a safe place for ned stark's daughter. arya notices that they are loading sandor the hound clegane into a prisoner cart , so she walks over and angrily asks him if he remembers the last time he was here , but he simply says all poor inns look the same. .
 jaime loses his sword hand.
as they get ready to leave , hot pie explains that he isn't going with them he baked some bread for the innkeeper , and as he was a baker's apprentice when he lived in king's landing , the innkeeper thought it was the best bread they'd ever had , and offered him a job. this life of fighting and travelling isn't really for him , plus thoros formally made a deal with the innkeeper to pay for the free meals they enjoyed with hot pie's services. before they go , he gives arya a present he made for her a loaf of bread shaped like a direwolf , though arya implies the tail looks like a head. arya is a bit brusque but the three wish each other well as they depart , and as they are riding away arya starts eating the wolf bread , and turns back to shout to hot pie that it is very good.
at an undisclosed location , theon greyjoy escapes from the dungeon with the help of a young man , who gives him a horse and tells him to ride east. theon thanks him and says he'll make him a lord of the iron islands for this , but the boy says that they aren't in the iron islands now. theon is later hunted down by his captors in a prolonged chase on horseback through the woods. ultimately his pursuers split into two groups and trap theon between them , and he is knocked off his horse with a flail. theon's captors pin him to the ground , and pull down his pants the leader declares that he intends to rape theon as punishment for trying to run away. however , theon's unidentified savior returns and snipes all of the captors from afar using his bow , rescuing him at the last minute.
somewhere else in the riverlands , jaime lannister and brienne of tarth have been taken captive by locke and a detachment of men from house bolton. as they ride along , the men sing a rousing chorus of the bear and the maiden fair. tied up back to back on one of the horses , jaime warns brienne that when they make camp for the night , they will rape her , more than once , and that his honest advice is to give no resistance , and just think of renly. they were only sent to capture jaime , therefore brienne means nothing to them , so at the slightest provocation they will kill her without hesitation. brienne says she will fight even if they kill her , and jaime agrees that if he were a woman , he would fight to the death before being raped , too.
later that night locke's men make camp , and do indeed drag brienne kicking and screaming into the bushes to gang rape her. jaime is disgusted by this pointless brutality , so he points out to locke that brienne is actually a noblewoman and the sole heir of lord selwyn of tarth , the sapphire isle , and her father will pay them a ransom of her weight in sapphires provided that she is unharmed. locke agrees and calls his men back before they are able to rape brienne , and they tie her up to a tree again. jaime tries to smooth talk locke once again with offers of how his father tywin will make him extravagantly rich if he lets jaime go. tiring of jaime's frequent attempts to bribe him into turning over to the lannister side , locke decides to prove that jaime's father will never deal with the likes of him. at first locke has his men untie jaime on the pretext of letting him go , but then his men hold him down on a chopping block while locke grabs a carving knife , threatening to stab jaime in the eye. locke reasons that maiming tywin's son will be the ultimate proof that the lannisters would never deal with locke , much less bribe him. locke says that jaime's father can't help him now , and this should help you remember as he swings down the carving knife and hacks off jaime's sword hand. for half a second , jaime stares at his severed right hand in shock , before what just happened can register in his mind and then he begins to scream in horror.
 walk of punishment is the third episode of the third season of game of thrones. it is the twenty third episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 14 , 2013. it was written and directed by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss , marking their directorial debut for the series.
tyrion gains new responsibilities jon is taken to the fist of the first men daenerys meets with the slavers jaime strikes a deal with his captors.

<And Now His Watch is Ended>

 in the seven kingdoms.
in the riverlands , jaime lannister has had his sword hand cut off by locke. the following day , locke's men lead their prisoners jaime and brienne of tarth back to harrenhal on horseback. locke is gaining maximum enjoyment from torturing someone who can't possibly fight back he ties jaime's severed right hand onto a rope and hangs it around jaime's neck , forcing jaime to smell as the flesh of his own hand rots. jaime is physically in agony from his wound , feverish and half delirious. jaime can barely stay conscious , and he falls headlong off of his horse into the mud. locke has been tormenting jaime by not giving him water and he is almost dying of thirst. one of locke's men moves to give him water but instead empties the canteen over jaime's head to taunt him. jaime weakly tries to point out that if he actually dies locke and his men will be in serious trouble , but locke simply dismisses this. locke then hands him a container , which he desperately guzzles down rapidly , too weak to notice what it is. locke then points out that he filled the container with horse piss just to torment jaime , who spits out what he can. jaime can barely move , but locke viciously kicks him repeatedly. in a surge of effort jaime manages to steal the sword from one of locke's men , but jaime is so weak and feverish that he can barely stand , much less wield a sword and he cannot fight as well with his left hand as he could his sword hand. jaime soon realizes this , and actually isn't trying to fight them off any more , but instead to provoke one of them to kill him so he doesn't have to go on living like this and can die with the small dignity of having a sword in his hand. he succumbs to exhaustion and locke doesn't even bother to punish him this time , just warning him that if he tries that again he'll cut off his other hand.
later that night jaime and brienne are restrained near a campfire. jaime refuses to eat , and says he wants to die. brienne says he should try to live for revenge , but jaime says he was that hand , and without his sword hand , even if he escapes , he is nothing , and would rather die as the jaime he was than go on living , robbed of his very identity. brienne grows angry , insinuating to jaime that this is the first time he's had to face the real world where things people care about get taken away , but he's pathetically moping around like a woman. her criticism and strength convinces jaime to start eating. brienne says she overheard when he earlier managed to talk locke out of letting his men gang rape her , by convincing him that her father will pay locke her weight in sapphires. while brienne is a noblewoman and worth a ransom , tarth is called the sapphire isle due to the color of the seas around it , not because there are any actual sapphires , and house tarth is not particularly rich. brienne is completely confused , and asks jaime why he helped her , but he doesn't answer.
 varys' long awaited revenge.
in king's landing , tyrion lannister meets with varys , who is in the middle of prying open a large wooden crate. tyrion asks varys to help him confirm who sent ser mandon moore to kill him during the battle of the blackwater. varys says he would like to help , but the most he has are whispers that it was cersei , but only whispers , and he cannot confirm who gave the order. tyrion wants to know with certainty if it was his sister so he can take revenge. varys uses this opportunity to finish a conversation they were having on the eve of the battle , in which varys promised to reveal how he was castrated. varys says that he used to be a slave in a travelling troupe that passed through all of the free cities , but once when he was in myr he was sold to a sorcerer. the sorcerer gave him a potion which temporarily paralyzed him while still leaving him fully aware and able to experience pain , and then he cut his genitals off , root and stem shaft and testes . the sorcerer needed his genitals as a sacrifice for a spell , and he burned varys' genitals in a brazier of fire. what varys has had recurrent nightmares about to this day is not the sorcerer , or the knife , or the pain... but that when the sorcerer prayed to the blue flames in his ceremony , a voice clearly answered him from the flames. whether it was a god or a demon or simply parlor tricks , varys never knew , as the sorcerer threw him out into the street to die. but he was determined to live , to spite the sorcerer , and one day get his revenge on him. varys did whatever it took to claw his way up into a position of influence in the world first , to survive he would beg , steal , or sell the sexual use of the parts of his body he still had. increasingly , he discovered that stealing men's secrets was far more profitable than anything physical which could be stolen , and in time , he worked his way up from the slums of myr to the small council in king's landing. this is why varys has always hated those who claim to wield magical powers , and particularly why he opposed stannis baratheon , who relies on the red priestess melisandre. as varys finishes his long tale , he finally finishes prying the last nail out of the crate and opens it. to tyrion's astonishment , it contains an elderly sorcerer , the very same one that castrated varys so many years ago. he is still alive but gagged , and was shipped to varys in the crate. using his own life as an example , varys thus urges tyrion to be patient , and his revenge will come to him in time. varys then closes the crate , with the sorcerer still inside.
varys visits ros , who has been secretly spying on littlefinger for him. he is surprised to hear her report from the other prostitutes in the brothel on the prodigious activities of one podrick payne. varys is perplexed as to what exactly happened ros says the girls told her he wasn't particularly large or anything , so much as what he did , but when she repeatedly asked them what exactly that was , the most they could say is that it was hard to describe. she then reports on how frequently littlefinger has visited sansa stark , and says she thinks he is obsessed with her , and wants to smuggle her out of the city. he asks why she thinks this is true , and she presents a stolen copy of the ship's manifest for the boat that will take littlefinger to the vale. varys is surprised that ros is literate and asks what obvious point it is that he doesn't see. she points out that there will be two feather beds , and varys realizes littlefinger would only pay the extra money for someone other than littlefinger if it was sansa.
 cersei and olenna in the great sept of baelor. joffrey and margaery wave at the pleased crowd. joffrey gives margaery a tour of the great sept of baelor , where their royal wedding is to be held , as cersei lannister and olenna tyrell follow. joffrey excitedly relates tales of the darker chapters of the great sept's history , to margaery's feigned interest and cersei's annoyance. olenna asks if robert baratheon was buried with the targaryen kings in the great sept cersei explains that he left instructions to return his remains to storm's end. when cersei dismisses the accident that claimed robert's life , olenna laments her son's total lack of military prowess. cersei points out that olenna's son lord mace tyrell besieged storm's end for almost a full year during robert's rebellion , but olenna scoffs that her oaf of a son is no warrior and the only thing he laid siege to was the banquet table in the command tent. olenna muses on the shortcomings of the men in their lives and the arrangement of patriarchy in general , to which cersei wistfully says that it is the will of the gods. thus distracted , margaery convinces joffrey to greet the crowd outside. having been somewhat placated by margaery's charity , the crowd happily cheers for the pair of them. cersei realizes she has lost control of joffrey to the tyrells.
subsequently , cersei meets with her father tywin in his chambers. she wants to ensure that he is doing everything he can to find jaime. tywin dismissively points out that he started a war when his hated dwarf son tyrion was captured by the starks , so assuredly he is willing to do even more now for his elder son. tywin makes it clear that he considers jaime his heir despite the fact that as a kingsguard member , jaime has officially renounced all rights to inheritance. tyrion previously noted that he is next in line of succession after jaime , as a younger son inherits before an older daughter , but tywin said he would never let his hated dwarf son be his heir. cersei points out that as she is next in line of succession maybe tywin should consider her the real heir to his legacy , not his sons. she claims she is the only one of his children who ever took his lectures on family and legacy seriously. she points out that for a man who pays a lot of lip service to family and legacy , he excludes her from his plans. tywin confirms that he excludes cersei from his plans , but not because she is a woman he distrusts her because she isn't nearly as smart as she thinks she is. he sneers that she has allowed joffrey to run roughshod over her , the city and its people , and that he intends to rein in his grandson's deranged behavior. cersei says she is afraid of the growing influence of the tyrells at court , and something must be done about them. in particular , cersei is nervous about how skilled margaery tyrell is at manipulating joffrey. tywin bluntly responds that it's good someone has finally been able to manipulate joffrey , as cersei herself has clearly proven to be incapable of doing it. she says tywin should try stopping joffrey from doing what he likes implying he will find it extremely difficult , but her father firmly responds , i will. .
 varys and olenna discuss sansa meanwhile , olenna is seated in the gardens with two of margaery's cousins. one of them embroiders a golden tyrell rose with their motto , growing strong , which prompts olenna to complain that their family has the dullest sigil and motto in the seven kingdoms. other families have interesting mottos like winter is coming or we do not sow , and have direwolves and krakens for sigils. varys arrives to meet with olenna and she shoos the girls away. they walk through the gardens , and while olenna remains relatively polite she instantly sees through all of varys' pleasantries. varys is verbally outmatched , for once , and she asks him to just get to the point. he says that he is extremely worried that littlefinger is going to try to take control of sansa stark with robb stark's younger brothers presumed dead at winterfell , and arya stark missing and presumed dead for over a year , sansa is robb's only heir. the war of the five kings is not going well for the starks now , and if robb were to be defeated and die , the man who controls sansa controls the north. varys says that while he enjoys sparring with baelish , he is truly horrified by the man. while they are all engaged in the intrigues and murders of court politics , baelish has utterly no limits on what he will do to achieve power he would burn the entire realm down if it meant he could be king of the ashes. olenna agrees and says that the solution is rather obvious.
shortly thereafter , margaery tyrell finds sansa stark praying in the red keep's godswood , overlooking blackwater bay. she dismisses the lannister guards threatening to tell the king they refused her if they don't leave and engages in pleasant small talk. margaery plays a small joke on sansa by saying that her cousin died of a pox which made her face melt off , but is just trying to brighten her spirits though in the process is reminded that sansa is still somewhat na ve . margaery then invites sansa to visit highgarden in the reach someday. sansa is confused , as queen cersei won't allow her to leave the city , but margaery wryly points out that queen regent cersei might not want her to , but queen margaery would be happy to share highgarden's pageantry with a friend... or a sister. margaery points out that if sansa were to marry loras , then she would belong in highgarden anyway. the thought of finally escaping joffrey , being wed to her idol and becoming a tyrell makes sansa choke out tears of joy.
 the hound is brought before the brotherhood to answer for his crimes. elsewhere in the riverlands , arya stark and gendry are kept hooded as thoros of myr and his men lead them into a cave , hollow hill , which serves as the secret hideout of the brotherhood without banners. sandor the hound clegane is brought with them in restraints , and is confronted by the leader of the brotherhood , ser beric dondarrion. ser beric was commanded by none other than eddard stark to lead a group of soldiers to track down and bring to justice the false knight ser gregor clegane , when he started raiding the riverlands under tywin lannister's orders at the very beginning of the war of the five kings. they subsequently became trapped behind lannister lines , but continued to harass their forces by forming the brotherhood. over time , however , they began to realize how much suffering was being inflicted on the smallfolk of the riverlands by stark and lannister forces alike , and began to defend the commoners from raiders from both sides of the war. over time they were joined by stark deserters , baratheon deserters , and commoners who want to defend their homes.
dondarrion says he's still following the mission that eddard stark set him on , to bring gregor clegane to justice and restore king robert's peace to the riverlands. the hound balks that eddard and robert are dead now , and he can't just be fighting for ghosts , but dondarrion says that now the brotherhood are ghosts , attacking the lannisters where they least expect them , melting away back to their hideouts in the woods. the brotherhood points out that the lannister lions have been butchering the innocent. at the outbreak of the war , dondarrion's group were ambushed in the battle at the mummer's ford , where girls as young as seven were raped and babies were cut in half in front of their parents. sandor points out that he wasn't at mummer's ford. the brotherhood continues to cite various lannister crimes thoros says he was there during the sack of king's landing and saw the butchered corpses of the royal children , rhaenys and aegon targaryen. sandor continues to point out that he wasn't present for these crimes and many of them were in fact committed by his older brother gregor who personally killed the baby aegon , then raped and killed his mother elia . sandor says that they can't kill him for the crime of being born into house clegane and being related to gregor. he also scoffs at how dondarrion and many of his men have converted to the lord of light religion , of which thoros is a priest. arya then speaks up , and angrily accuses sandor of killing her friend mycah , the butcher's boy , then slinging his corpse over his horse like a deer. sandor matter of factly admits that he killed mycah , but says he was in no place to question then prince joffrey's orders. the brotherhood , closing in on something sandor actually did , charge him with the crime of following orders to kill mycah , but that they will give him a fair trial dondarrion himself will face sandor in a trial by combat.
i.
 in the north.
in the north , bran stark is having a shared greensight dream with jojen reed. they are walking through the woods and see the three eyed raven again. jojen advises bran that he must follow the raven , and when he is confused , jojen points out that he must follow it by climbing a tree. bran begins to climb the tree that the raven has landed in but he soon becomes terrified , remembering the fall that crippled him when he was climbing a tower at winterfell. he sees a vivid dream memory of his mother catelyn , repeating her warning in which she made him promise never to climb again a promise which he broke , and thus indirectly led to the fall which crippled him. bran is so terrified of the memory of catelyn yelling at him that he falls off the tree. bran and jojen wake in their camp in the woods , disappointed that he could not follow the three eyed raven.
elsewhere , apparently in the north , theon greyjoy is being led by the boy who set him free from the dungeon and then rescued him by killing his captors when they tried to recapture him. he says that he is leading theon to deepwood motte , a castle on the west coast of the north which was captured by his sister yara. he says he is concerned that some of the guards may betray theon , so it is best to sneak into the castle through the drains until they reach his sister in person. as the boy fumbles around with keys at a locked gate , theon sinks to the ground and asks if his father balon knows he was taken captive the boy says he doesn't know but theon says he probably did but left him for dead. filled with remorse , theon laments that his real father died when his head was cut off in king's landing , that he had a choice between two families , and he chose wrong. theon says that now , he has destroyed everything he ever cared about , and his real home winterfell is burned to the ground. he also says the only thing he ever resented about robb stark is that robb could effortlessly be the kind of good man that theon truly wanted to be but had to struggle against his own failings to be like. theon even apologizes aloud for having two innocent orphan boys killed , so in desperation he could pass them off as bran and rickon stark. the boy is surprised , and theon explains to him that bran and rickon escaped , so he had to fake their deaths so he wouldn't seem weak.
the boy leads theon into a dark chamber in the castle , and he calls out for yara. the boy then lights a torch... revealing the same x shaped cross that theon was chained to when he was being tortured before. theon was led in a complete circle , back to the very same dungeon he escaped from in the first place. other guards come in and the boy shouts to tie theon up again , where he belongs , and that it was theon who killed the other guards when he tried to escape instead of him . the boy , giving commands , is revealed to be one of the head torturers , and theon's entire escape that he led him on was nothing more than another form of torture , sadistically toying with him.
b.
 beyond the wall.
at craster's keep , tensions run high among the members of the night's watch who sought shelter there after escaping the devastating defeat at the battle of the fist of the first men. grenn and edd are shoveling pig shit , but the former rapist rast urges them that they are not safe here and cannot trust craster the man sacrifices his own newborn sons to the white walkers , and there's every probability that if the white walkers do come , he'll hand over the night's watch survivors to his real masters. grenn and edd don't want to discuss it.
samwell tarly visits gilly , who is deeply distraught about the fate of her newborn son. she is frantic , and yells at sam not to draw attention to the fact that it's a boy by calling it a he so loud , as craster will want to offer it up as a sacrifice when he finds out it's a son. he asks her if she's decided on a name , but she responds that there's no point in naming her baby if he's only going to be offered up as a human sacrifice. she gives sam back his mother's thimble and says she doesn't care about such stupid things , all she's focused on is protecting the life of her baby.
some of their wounded have died from their injuries , and lord commander jeor mormont leads a funeral service as they burn the corpse of a man named bannen on a pyre. mormont didn't know the man well , but he rode bravely into the unknown lands far beyond the wall , fought valiantly at the fist against monsters which they didn't even know existed , and they will never see a man that brave again. he closes the eulogy with the traditional closing line for members of the night's watch , and now , his watch is ended , which the assembled men repeat.
in the main hall , lord commander mormont is checking a map in his journal , as craster continues to crassly berate the men of the night's watch. mormont says that they have to stay long enough for their wounded to recover sufficiently to be fit to travel , but craster waves this off , saying they've recovered as much as they ever will. craster openly suggests that they should just kill the men who are so severely wounded that they won't be able to travel , and if mormont is reluctant to do the deed himself , he can just leave and craster will finish them off. mormont declines. another young night's watch man , karl tanner , comes in to complain that craster is feeding them nothing but bread cut with sawdust , and he wants to know where craster keeps his hidden larder. meanwhile , craster is sitting there getting quite drunk on the wine they gifted to him when they first came. rast joins in the accusations , and craster admits that he has winter stockpiles , but he needs those to feed his women and refuses to share them. rast calls craster a bastard at which craster becomes enraged and threatens rast with an axe. mormont restrains rast , and craster shouts that he's throwing them all out to lie down outside in the cold on their empty bellies. craster says he will chop the hands off the next man who calls him bastard. a tense moment of silence passes , and mormont grabs rast to lead him out the doorway.
 craster is murdered. ...when karl , firmly staring directly at craster , challenges him and calls him a daughter fucking , wildling bastard , craster lunges forward at karl in a blind rage , but he is drunk and clumsy without flinching , karl holds off craster's axe with his left hand , while using his right hand to ram a dagger through the old man's throat , which goes up into the roof of his mouth. he flings the dying craster to the ground , then punches one of craster's wives who is present , demanding to know where the hidden food is kept. lord commander mormont bellows that the gods will curse him for this , as a guest killing a host who has formally accepted him into his home breaks all the laws of gods and men. karl shouts that there are no laws beyond the wall. karl continues to threaten the girl with a knife , so mormont draws his sword , which makes karl drop the girl and begin to face off against mormont with his dagger. suddenly , rast comes up behind mormont and literally stabs the lord commander in the back , which makes mormont drop his sword. for a brief moment the men stare in shock , then grenn charges and tackles karl. the entire room explodes into pure bedlam.
the desperate night's watch recruits like rast , mostly conscripted criminals exiled to the wall , turn on officers who are loyal to mormont , as well as some of the other common recruits like grenn who stay loyal. quick flashes of the fight go by as no one can really perceive what's happening , and the mutiny spreads throughout craster's keep. in the midst of it , mormont turns around to fight off rast. mormont may have a knife in his back but he is twice rast's size and completely enraged. mormont grabs rast by the throat and lifts him off his feet , one handed , then spins him around and hurls him against the opposite wall. still choking rast , mormont nearly succeeds in crushing rast's windpipe with his bare hand but then mormont starts to cough up thick red blood. his knife wound is mortal. the injured mormont then sinks to the ground and continues to cough up blood. now that mormont is on the ground unarmed and helpless , rast grabs a knife and repeatedly pounds it into mormont's throat until the old bear is dead. meanwhile , sam rushes to gilly's hut and orders her that they have to escape now or they never will. sam runs out of craster's keep with gilly and her baby , as loyal night's watch members fall to the mutineers , who also kill or rape craster's other wives. gilly leads the way into the night because she knows the woods around her home. covered in mormont's blood , rast shouts into the darkness that piggy can run for now , but he'll soon be cutting sam's throat too.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
at the city of astapor in slaver's bay , daenerys targaryen arrives before kraznys mo nakloz and the other slave masters of the city , with her dothraki guards carrying the largest of her dragons , drogon , in its large cage. daenerys is accompanied by her queensgard members , ser jorah mormont and ser barristan selmy. missandei the translator , gifted to daenerys at her request , is now dressed in higher quality clothing which matches dany's style of dress. all eight thousand of the unsullied warrior eunuchs are gathered in the city's main square for the transaction. the other upper class men and women of astapor crowd around the square , gawking at the dragon while slaves in heavy chains serve them refreshments.
 daenerys reveals drogon. kraznys tells daenerys , via missandei's interpretation in the low valyrian language , that many of the unsullied have not yet seen battle , so she would do well to attack some minor cities and towns here and there on her way to westeros. the slavers will happily purchase any slaves she captures , so it's a win win situation. he also wryly notes that any young boys she sells as slaves will be castrated and ready to serve as new unsullied when their training is over in about ten years' time. daenerys lets her dragon out of its cage , and leads it on a long chain leash attached to its foot as it hovers about twenty feet in the air. she hands the leash to kraznys , and in return he gives her a cat o nine tails with a hilt shaped like a harpy , signifying ownership of the unsullied. daenerys asks if it is done , and kraznys impatiently says that it is , as he struggles to rein in the dragon.
to the surprise of missandei , daenerys calls the unsullied to attention in valyrian , and proceeds to test them with basic valyrian marching commands. she smiles slightly , knowing they are now hers. too distracted to notice , kraznys complains for missandei to tell the bitch that the dragon won't come when he commands. daenerys turns to face kraznys and bluntly says a dragon is not a slave , again in perfectly accented valyrian. when a dumbfounded kraznys demands an explanation , she declares that she is daenerys stormborn of house targaryen , of the blood of old valyria valyrian is her mother tongue indicating she'd been feigning ignorance the entire time and putting up with kraznys' insulting comments to lull them into a false sense of security.
 drogon burns kraznys the unsullied sack astapor. daenerys then addresses the thousands of unsullied , and orders them to kill all of the slave masters in astapor , along with all of their household soldiers and any man who holds a whip. she cautions them to spare any children , and to strike the chains off any slave they see. the unsullied obey her commands without question , and instantly begin attacking all of the assembled slave masters. kraznys frantically shouts for someone to kill daenerys , to which she calmly orders dracarys. drogon breathes fire onto kraznys , completely engulfing the slaver in flames as he thrashes about in his death throes. her dragon then flies across the upper walls where the other high ranking slave masters are watching , burning them all to death. the unsullied proceed to sack the entire city , slaughtering the slave masters and freeing fellow slaves , supported by the fire of daenerys' dragons.
after the sack of astapor is finished , daenerys walks past kraznys' charred remains , mounts a white horse , and addresses her unsullied. she declares that they have spent their entire lives as slaves , but now she sets them free. if any man wishes to leave , she will not stop him , and no harm will come to him if he goes. she asks the unsullied to stay and fight for her , not as slaves but as free men. for a moment the unsullied stare blankly they have never known what freedom is. then one starts tapping the end of his spear against the ground in support , and the others join in , until thousands of unsullied are triumphantly striking their spears against the ground in praise of daenerys. she has what her brother dreamed about for seventeen years but could never find an army with which to reconquer the seven kingdoms.
 daenerys marches forward with her army and dragons. daenerys rides triumphantly out of the smoking wreck of astapor , and drops the slave master's whip on the ground. the unsullied trample the whip under their feet as they march past. she rides out with her eight thousand strong army of unsullied marching in formation , as her three dragons fly above them. for the first time in generations , a targaryen has begun to conquer again , begining the liberation of slaver's bay.
 and now his watch is ended is the fourth episode of the third season of game of thrones. it is the twenty fourth episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 21 , 2013. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by alex graves.
the night's watch takes stock varys meets his better arya is taken to the commander of the brotherhood daenerys makes an exchange.

<Kissed by Fire>

 beyond the wall.
tormund warns jon. jon snow is with the group of twenty wildlings under the command of tormund , who were sent ahead of the main army of king beyond the wall mance rayder to scale the wall and attack castle black from behind. jon and ygritte are gathering firewood , when the warg orell asks him about the defenses of the night's watch. orell has seen through the eyes of his eagle that there are patrols on top of the wall and he wants to know how frequent they are. jon says they usually sent out patrols in teams of four , two builders to inspect for structural damage and two rangers to protect them , but that the frequency of their patrols often changes. orell says the wildlings know there are nineteen castles along the south side of the wall , but he wants to know how many are currently manned. jon finds this very unpleasant , but reluctantly says that only three are currently manned. apart from castle black which even the wildlings know is manned , there is also eastwatch by the sea at the extreme eastern end , and the shadow tower at the western end. jon is then asked how many men currently garrison castle black. jon is very reluctant to answer , but after being threatened by orell , he gives an exaggerated number , saying there are one thousand men this is a lie , as castle black only had six hundred men before the great ranging , and the garrison now is closer to three hundred . tormund tells jon that he likes him , but if he's lying to them , he'll rip his guts out through his throat.
 ygritte is caught off guard when jon begins performing oral sex on her.
jon and ygritte then walk away , but she steals his sword longclaw , making him chase her to get it back. she leads him into a nearby cave , which is heated by natural hotsprings , which form a waterfall and a pool. ygritte starts disrobing , and says that she wants to make sure jon snow has truly come over to the wildlings' side and broken his night's watch vows by making him break his oath of celibacy with her. she quickly shucks off all of her clothes and walks up to him naked. jon is very hesitant to break his vows , and very shy because he's never had sex before. ygritte questions why he's still dressed , and they start kissing. jon continues to kiss down her body as she insists that he has no experience and therefore you know nothing , jon sn but stops mid word as jon starts performing oral sex on her.
 jon and ygritte taking a bath after sex. some time after they finish having sex , they lie together in a naked embrace. ygritte asks if that thing you did with your mouth is what lords do to their ladies in the south , but jon says she just seemed to like it when he kissed her there. he admits he's never had sex with anyone before and is a maid , though ygritte starts listing off some wildling boys she's had sex with before. the first was a boy who also had red hair like her , which is rare among the wildlings and considered very lucky they call having red hair being kissed by fire , and another was a thenn that was built like an ox , but he could not speak the common tongue. jon and ygritte then slide into the hot springs pool to take a bath together and romantically cuddle more. ygritte tells jon she wishes they could stay in this cave forever instead of having to leave and face the winter , wars , and monsters outside .
a.
 across the narrow sea.
in slaver's bay , daenerys targaryen's new army of freed unsullied , having just sacked astapor , head north to the next of the three great slaver cities , yunkai. ser jorah mormont tells ser barristan selmy how he was knighted at the end of the greyjoy rebellion , in which they both fought. jorah explains that he was the second man through the breach during the siege of pyke , right behind thoros of myr , who charged in headlong waving about his flaming sword. barristan thinks this is amusing as he wasn't there he was commanding the siege of old wyk at the time . king robert baratheon himself knighted jorah for his bravery that day , the proudest of jorah's life , though he says what he was most thinking about was that he really needed to piss because he'd been sealed in metal plate armor for sixteen hours straight.
barristan admits that robert was a good man and a good warrior , but laments that he turned out to be a terrible king. barristan laments that he wasted so much of his life defending kings who didn't deserve it seventeen years defending robert , and the mad king aerys targaryen before that. barristan explains that a man of honor must keep his vows no matter what , whether he's serving a drunk or a lunatic the reason why he never turned on king aerys the way jaime lannister ultimately did . barristan says that just once before he dies , he wants to know what it's like to serve with pride , fighting for someone he believes in.
their talk turns to daenerys , and jorah says that barristan can believe in her. barristan says she'll have good men to advise her , though he respectfully warns that it might not be well for her to be seen with jorah at her side when they return to westeros jorah admits that he may never be rid of the moral taint of selling slaves , which is abhorred in westeros. jorah then begins to subtly ask about the advisors on the small council , if any of them spoke against robert when he wanted daenerys , the last targaryen , assassinated. it becomes apparent that jorah is trying to figure out if barristan knew that jorah was initially a spy for king robert , reporting back to varys. jorah's report that daenerys was pregnant is what made robert demand that daenerys be assassinated at a small council meeting with ned stark. jorah points out that the lord commander of the kingsguard traditionally holds a seat on the small council. however , barristan explains that as a former kingsguard member under aerys targaryen , and one who'd killed several of robert's friends , while robert didn't mind keeping him in his position as a guard , he never really trusted his advice , so he left him out of small council meetings. jorah is relieved that barristan was therefore not present at any council meeting so he couldn't have learned that jorah was sending it reports on daenerys. jorah and barristan briefly bicker about the fact that barristan only just came to them , while jorah was defending daenerys from robert baratheon's assassins for months , and barristan isn't lord commander here jorah takes his orders from daenerys.
meanwhile , daenerys and her translator aide de camp missandei meet with the assembled officers of the unsullied. she addresses them in low valyrian , and says that now that they are no longer slaves but free men and they can make their own choices , and she asked them to choose one among them to be leader of all the unsullied. they part ranks and one of the eunuchs steps forward. she asks him to remove his helmet and tell her his name , and he introduces himself as grey worm . daenerys is confused , and missandei explains that when the slavemasters of astapor castrate slave boys to train them as unsullied , they force new slave names onto them which are intentionally demeaning , usually a combination of a color and a kind of vermin , i.e. grey worm , red flea , black rat , etc. this is to enforce the mentality in the unsullied that this is just what they are worthless , expendable vermin. disgusted , daenerys issues the command that all unsullied must choose their own new names as free men , or reclaim the names their parents gave them. the unsullied commander says that he will continue to be known as grey worm his original name is accursed , because it was the name he had when he was taken as a slave , but grey worm is a lucky name he will bear with pride , because it is the name he had when he was set free by daenerys stormborn of house targaryen. daenerys is deeply touched by his loyalty.
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
at riverrun , the prisoners martyn and willem lannister squires fifteen and fourteen years old , respectively awake to hear shouting and fighting outside the door to their cell. lord rickard karstark fights his way into the room with some of his own men. confused , willem asks if this is a rescue , and is promptly killed by the karstark men. martyn begs that he is just a squire and didn't do anything , but lord rickard ignores his pleas and stabs him in the belly with a dagger , killing him. .
 martyn and willem lie dead before robb.
the bloody corpses of the two lannister prisoners are laid out on the floor in front of king in the north robb stark in riverrun's main meeting room. robb is disgusted , remarking that karstark needed five men to brutally murder two unarmed squires in their own prison cell. karstark insists that it was a father's vengeance. robb points out that these boys had nothing to do with the death of karstark's sons , who were both killed by jaime lannister. rickard explains that he was denied his vengeance when robb's mother catelyn set jaime free in hopes of a prisoner exchange for her daughters in king's landing. finally having enough , karstark did the next best thing , and killed jaime's kin who they held prisoner. robb angrily shouts that they were only little boys , and karstark can't blame catelyn for his treasonous killing of prisoners of war. karstark stands firm , and says the only treason is in letting their enemies go , when in war they should be killing them if robb's father ever taught him that. brynden tully punches karstark over this remark , but robb tells him to leave karstark alone. karstark has utterly lost faith in robb , and says that the king in the north will just give him a scolding , though he should probably call him the king who lost the north after he allowed winterfell to fall. robb orders all of karstark's men hanged , and to hang the lookout last so he can watch the others die. rickard karstark himself is sent to the dungeons.
robb's uncle edmure tully insists that if word of this leaves riverrun , tywin lannister will exact heavy reprisals for the deaths of his young nephews. therefore , he suggests that they just quietly bury the boys , and simply keep silent about their deaths until the war is over. robb , however , refuses to be a liar he says he cannot fight a war in the name of justice if he will not serve justice to murderers within his own ranks. all of robb's advisors tell him this is a bad idea. catelyn and his wife talisa warn him that the karstark soldiers will abandon his cause and return home if he executes their lord , and they are already badly outnumbered. catelyn says they should keep lord rickard hostage , and edmure agrees , saying that they can just keep him hostage and tell the other karstarks that no harm will come to him so long as they remain loyal. .
 robb executes rickard.
robb ignores their pleas , and he has lord karstark brought out to the courtyard of riverrun to be executed during a driving rainstorm. karstark points out that not only are both of their houses descended from the first men , but the starks and karstarks are kin as house karstark is a cadet branch of house stark , founded centuries ago by younger son karlon stark . robb says that their blood relationship did not stop rickard from betraying him and won't stop robb from executing him now , but rickard says it isn't meant to he wants it to haunt robb until the day he dies. with his last words , lord rickard says that robb will be cursed as a kinslayer and that robb is no king of his. obedient to the laws of his father eddard stark that the man who passes the sentence must swing the sword robb pronounces the sentence of death and personally beheads lord rickard.
robb's strict adherence to justice makes things turn out just as badly as his advisors said they would the karstarks withdraw their soldiers from his army and march for home , resulting in robb losing almost half of his forces which were stationed at riverrun. robb openly admits to talisa that she was right , and he made a mistake. robb says tywin lannister realizes that he's in such a strong position he doesn't even need to attack the northerners anymore , he just needs to wait , and let their demoralized forces unravel. when the war began robb's army was unified around a central purpose , but now they have lost momentum , and his generals are acting like bickering children. robb shows talisa a war map of the seven kingdoms depicting robb's armies concentrated around riverrun and harrenhal , lannister and tyrell armies overrunning the stormlands , lannister tyrell armies concentrated in king's landing , and greyjoy forces occupying the western coasts of the north. talisa suggests that he try to take the fight to the lannisters if they won't come to him , but he explains that this is hopeless. taking king's landing would have been difficult to begin with , but now tywin and the bulk of the main lannister army , as well as a large tyrell army , are defending the city. attacking the capital head on would be suicide , and tywin would crush them within a day. talisa suggests that he lead his army back to the north to repulse the greyjoys from his homeland and rebuild his powerbase. robb points out that as soon as all of his tired soldiers are back home , they won't want to leave again particularly because winter is coming , and the coming one is expected to be very long , five years or more. the northerners have been away from their farms fighting in the war , however , so they haven't even begun to collect harvests to set aside as winter stockpiles. thus if robb returns to the north , it will be difficult to rally his men to return south to defend the riverlords who declared for him. eyeing the map with talisa , robb decides that if king's landing is too strong to attack and he can't return home , his only remaining option is to strike where his enemy is weakest. robb decides that with the main lannister army group under tywin now positioned all the way to the east in king's landing , he needs to return to the westerlands and make an all or nothing assault against casterly rock. this will make the lannisters lose face , just as robb did when he lost his home castle of winterfell , and bring momentum back to his army. however , with the loss of the karstark forces , they don't currently have enough men to consider attacking casterly rock. the only way they can gain enough soldiers to even attempt such an assault is if robb can win back the allegiance of house frey , whose thousands of soldiers withdrew from robb's army when he broke his promise to make a marriage alliance with them by marrying talisa , a political nobody , instead of one of the lord walder frey's daughters. thus , robb must try to repair his alliance with house frey.
 locke taunting jaime about his hand. at harrenhal , locke presents the captive jaime lannister and brienne of tarth to the northern castellan , lord roose bolton. locke is quite proud of himself for his torture of jaime , but roose is surprised that jaime has lost his hand. oblivious , locke boasts that jaime hasn't lost the hand , and points out that he cut it off and hung jaime's own hand around his neck. angered that locke maimed such a valuable hostage , bolton demands that he dispose of jaime's rotting hand , and orders that accommodations be provided for the pair of prisoners. when jaime asks if there is news from the capital , bolton informs him that stannis baratheon laid siege to the city in the battle of the blackwater... then needlessly drags out revealing the result. bolton toys with jaime but remains completely calm , never even grinning , before finally revealing that his sister cersei is alive and well , and his father's forces successfully repulsed stannis's assault. jaime is so overcome by delirium and relief that his family is safe that he collapses. bolton calls for qyburn to attend to jaime's injuries. later , qyburn peels away the crude tourniquet that locke's men applied to jaime , and finds that the stump of his right arm has become badly infected. jaime asks if he will die , and qyburn says he won't , but the corruption has spread to the point that it would be safest just to amputate the rest of his right arm at the shoulder. half delirious from the infection , jaime refuses , and says he'll kill qyburn if he tries. jaime then notices that qyburn is not a maester , because he isn't wearing a maester's chain of office. qyburn acknowledges this , explaining that he was stripped of his chain by the citadel and thrown out of the order of maesters , because as he says , he was conducting experiments which they felt were too bold. qyburn gets ready to cut jaime , and says he'll at least try to save his elbow , but with a sudden burst of effort jaime grabs him around the throat with his left hand , and says he doesn't need his right hand to kill him. qyburn relents , and says he could try cutting out the chunks of flesh which are outright rotten , then burning out the wounds with boiling wine , and with luck this might be able to stop the infection without having to amputate more of jaime's arm above the wrist. jaime says he's willing to try this , but qyburn cautions that it will cause a great amount of pain so he needs to give him milk of the poppy , but jaime refuses to take it , and says he'll just scream. qyburn cautions him that it will cause a massive amount of pain , but jaime says that he will just scream loudly. qyburn begins to dig into the stump of jaime's arm to cut out the gangrenous tissue , and jaime howls in agony.
some time later , brienne is in harrenhal's bathhouse , scrubbing off weeks' worth of caked on grime and filth from the trek through the riverlands. jaime then appears in the doorway assisted by a servant , barely able to stand due to the pain he is in. he asks the servant to help him take off his muddy rags and leave. jaime then walks naked into the same communal bath that brienne is in , on the far side. she is also naked and angrily points out that there are other baths , but he says he wants this one he's afraid he's going to pass out at any moment , and wants her to save him from drowning if he does , because he doesn't want to be the first lannister to die in a bathtub. brienne asks why she should care how he dies , but he points out that she swore a solemn vow to get him to king's landing in one piece which indicating the stump of his hand has not been going so well. jaime quips that it's no wonder renly died with brienne guarding him , at which she defiantly stands up out of the bath , facing him fully nude , to show him she isn't afraid of him. jaime gravely says that was unworthy and asks for forgiveness , brienne angrily orders him not to mock her , but he insists he's seriously apologizing. exhausted , jaime says he's tired of fighting and just wants to have a truce brienne says you need trust to have a truce , but he says he trusts her , so she sits back down.
 jaime recounts aerys's madness. jaime then notes that brienne has the same look on her face that he's seen on countless faces in the past seventeen years people that despise him , call him kingslayer more than his own name , or oathbreaker and a man without honor. jaime then goes on to recall the mad king's obsession with wildfire , how aerys enjoyed watching people being burned alive. jaime recalls aerys burned lords he didn't like , hands who failed him , and anyone he thought was against him. ultimately , half of westeros rebelled against him , so aerys had his pyromancers place caches of wildfire all over king's landing under the great sept of baelor , under the slums of flea bottom , under houses , stables , taverns , and even under the red keep itself. after robert's victory at the trident he marched on the capital city , but jaime's father tywin arrived there first , leading the entire lannister army , and promising to defend the city. jaime warned aerys that his father was never a man to choose the losing side , that this must be a trick and he should surrender the city while he still could , but the mad king refused to listen. nor did aerys listen to varys when he gave the same warning that tywin couldn't be trusted but he did listen to grand maester pycelle , who convinced aerys the lannisters were there to help. aerys opened the city gates , and the lannisters proceeded to sack the city. jaime again begged aerys to surrender , but the mad king ordered jaime to bring him tywin's head , and his pyromancer to set the city ablaze , burning its hundreds of thousands of inhabitants with wildfire. jaime makes it plain to brienne that was his breaking point and asks her what she would do if her precious renly commanded her to kill her own father and then stand by and do nothing as he murdered thousands of innocent people she can only sit in shocked silence. jaime goes on to say that he killed the pyromancer first , then drove his sword into aerys's back as the mad king tried to run for his life. shaken at the memory , jaime speculates that king aerys didn't believe he would die in the blaze in his lunacy , the mad king believed he would be reborn as a dragon in the fire , granting him the power to burn his enemies to ashes... so jaime finished aerys off by slitting his throat in order to make sure he died , concluding that eddard stark found him at that point.
stunned , brienne asks why jaime didn't defend himself with this account before. jaime angrily rants that the honorable lord stark would never have believed a word he said stark didn't want to hear jaime's side of the story when he'd already judged him guilty. jaime faints. jaime goes on to rage , yelling what right stark had to judge him , by what right the wolf dares to judge the lion. the strain of recounting his harrowing tale overcomes jaime , however , and he begins to faint , nearly falling face first into the water. brienne catches him and calls for help for the kingslayer , at which as he slips out of consciousness he whimpers to himself jaime. my name is jaime.
 the hound vs beric.
elsewhere in the riverlands , at the hideout of the brotherhood without banners in hollow hill , sandor clegane prepares to fight beric dondarrion in a trial by combat. as both men prepare , thoros of myr prays to the lord of light to judge sandor for his crimes if he is guilty or give strength to his sword if he is innocent. before the fight begins , beric calls upon the lord of light to ignite his sword with flame , using only his blood. due to the sandor's fear of fire , beric initially has an advantage against the hound. beric even manages to set sandor's wooden shield on fire , which is strapped so tightly to sandor's arm that he cannot remove it and is nearly burned himself. eventually , however , sandor's raw physical strength and anger born of terror overpowers beric , and with a single downward swipe , cuts right through his flaming sword , his armor , and deep into his shoulder , killing him.
 thoros reviving beric.
as beric falls to the ground , thoros quickly rushes to his side , and begins praying to the lord of light to revive him. sandor falls to the ground to desperately try and extinguish his flaming shield. arya stark grabs a dagger and attempts to kill the hound while he is down , but she is stopped by gendry. as she curses him , sandor taunts arya over how the god prefers him over her dead friend , however they are both interrupted by beric , who has been revived by the lord of light's power. having won the trial , and proven his innocence in the eyes of god , sandor is allowed to leave. the brotherhood had taken all of the gold sandor had on him to fund their cause , and in lieu of returning it , beric gives him a promissory note which will grant payment at the end of the war. sandor scoffs at this and throws it to the ground , but anguy says he should be thankful they're letting him leave with his life. clegane is hooded so he won't know the way back to their hideout , then led away to be released some distance away.
after the fight , gendry works on repairing beric's armor , and arya questions why , because they will be leaving soon. gendry says that he has decided to stay and work as a smith for the brotherhood without banners , to aid them in their cause to protect the smallfolk during the war. arya says that their plan was to find her brother robb , and robb needs soldiers too , but gendry points out that he has no attachments to robb stark arya would be going to her noble born family , and he'd just be serving another lord. gendry says he's been serving other men his whole life and he has nothing to show for it he worked most of his life for tobho mott and he repaid gendry by selling him to the night's watch as soon as the secret payments from varys ended , and he served tywin lannister as a prisoner at harrenhal , every day afraid he'd be killed or tortured. he'd be serving in the brotherhood too , but they chose beric as their leader , and they're more like a family and as a common born tavern maiden's son who was orphaned at a young age , gendry has never had a family. arya sadly chokes out that she could be his family. in response , gendry politely but firmly points out that the class differences between them mean that if he goes back with her , they'd never be family he'd still be a commoner , and she'd be m'lady.
later that night , arya looks into the campfire and recites her nightly prayer list for the death of her enemies. thoros says that they plan to bring her to riverrun to reunite her with her family , and in exchange for a reward from robb to fund their cause. arya points out that they are ransoming her , and thoros admits they technically are , but this is different. they do intend to escort her safely through the war ravaged countryside to her family , and beric would like to return her for free out of memory of her father , but they really need the gold to support themselves. beric says he knows she must be angry with him , but releasing sandor was the right thing to do , as they'd promised to let him go free if he won the trial by combat. arya is still quietly upset , as she's now seen many honorable men keep their promises and behave lawfully only to be killed for it such as yoren and her own father . she wonders why beric would want to let sandor go when he nearly killed him , but beric insists that he did actually kill him. when arya asks how , beric points her to thoros to explain , but he says that he isn't the one who brings beric back to life , it's the lord of light , and thoros is just the lucky drunk who recites the prayers. beric opens his shirt to reveal several grievous scars on his torso they explain that beric has actually died and then been brought back to life six times now , counting his recent death in the trial by combat. he has been impaled on a lance , shot with an arrow , and at his fifth death the lannisters hanged him for treason and stuck a dagger in his eye which didn't heal when thoros brought him back . arya earnestly asks thoros if he could bring back to life a man without a head. thoros and beric both understand that she is asking about bringing back her father , but thoros says he doesn't think it works that way both because he was decapitated , and because he's been dead for far too long by now . beric consoles her that her father was a good man , but he wouldn't wish his resurrected life on him. beric explains that being brought back from the dead carries a heavy toll , as pieces of his memory and who he was before chip away each time. arya still says she would wish beric's life on her father , because at least beric is still alive.
at dragonstone , king stannis baratheon is still deeply depressed after his defeat at the battle of the blackwater , and doesn't have the daily support of the red priestess melisandre since she left on what she claimed was an important mission. most of stannis' army has been destroyed , and the only reason the lannisters haven't attacked dragonstone yet is because so much of their fleet was destroyed at blackwater that they cannot yet mount an amphibious assault. with little else to do , stannis takes the time to visit his wife , queen selyse who was born into house florent , for the first time since returning from the battle. he finds her in her chamber , praying over a fire to the lord of light selyse is a fanatical believer in the lord of light religion , far more so than stannis , and it was indeed selyse who first invited melisandre to dragonstone. stannis and selyse do not have a loving relationship , but she reveres and is in awe of him as her king and the lord's chosen. she tells him not to despair despite his defeat , and he will be victorious , but he laments that he used to believe that once. due to his extreme belief in duty , unlike his hedonistic brother robert stannis is badly shaken by the fact that he broke his marriage vows to selyse , when he had sex with melisandre to create the shadow assassin creature that killed renly. he begins to confess to selyse that he has sinned and shamed her , but she interrupts him and says melisandre already told her everything and that no act done in service of the lord of light can be a sin. indeed , she wept for joy when melisandre told her of this service she did for the lord of light with stannis , and because the red priestess gave him a son of sorts which she never could. stannis' face is filled with a mix of shock , disgust , and relief. selyse had three sons with stannis but they were all stillborn , and she walks over to a corner of her chamber where she keeps their tiny corpses preserved in glass jars. the deaths of her sweet boys and failure to produce a male heir deeply affected selyse , and caused her to zealously embrace the foreign religion of the lord of light. she weeps , and laments that she has given stannis nothing he does not blame her , and with pity he says that's not true. selyse understands he is referring to their daughter and only child , princess shireen baratheon. she grows annoyed when she realizes he's come to see her too , and says he shouldn't waste time on such distractions , but insists that she is his daughter , and she relents because it is not her place to question her king. shireen visits davos while in the dungeons.
shireen is alone in her room drawing and singing a song about life under the sea to herself , and is excited to see her father. she is a cheerful but sickly young girl about the same age as arya stark , with the left side of her face badly scarred and disfigured by the dreaded greyscale disease. stannis wanted to see his daughter , but he is awkward in expressing warm emotions to her. she says she heard he was in a battle and asks if he won , and he good naturedly says no. shireen is slightly let down , but asks if the onion knight came back as well ser davos seaworth has been her friend during his service to her father , and he even made her a toy ship. growing tense over their falling out , stannis briefly explains that ser davos is a traitor and is rotting in the dungeon. confused , he flatly says she should best put him out of her mind.
later that night , shireen sneaks down to the dungeon of dragonstone and finds the cell of ser onion knight. he wakes up and tells her she shouldn't be there , but she explains that the fat guard bert is on duty , who usually drinks a lot of wine and sleeps through his watch. she asks if it is true that he is a traitor , and he says that it is , as he disobeyed her father. she says she doesn't care , he's her friend. she was worried that he must get bored down in his cell , so she brought him a book to read , about aegon the conquer and his dragons she excitedly points out that the targaryens built dragonstone , and aegon used to live in this very castle. davos reluctantly explains that it's wasted on him , because he doesn't know how to read. undaunted , shireen offers to teach him how to read , by coming down to his cell and reading to him when bert is on duty. davos chides her that they can't , but she asks what's the worst the guards could do to them if they find out , lock them in cells they have a quiet laugh , and shireen starts to read to davos an history of aegon the conqueror and his conquest of westeros.
in king's landing , queen regent cersei lannister encounters petyr littlefinger baelish in a courtyard , and tells him she fears that the tyrells do not have the lannisters' best interests at heart , but her father won't listen. therefore , she asks that littlefinger use his spies to try to find out what they're up to , because he has a good working relationship with them after brokering the lannister tyrell alliance. he agrees , but cersei warns him that this had better produce more results than when she previously asked him to find arya stark , but the girl could not be found.
in the castle gardens , sansa stark and margaery tyrell watch her brother ser loras spar with his squire. sansa confidently remarks on his fighting ability , and inquires when she and loras will wed , as per the tyrell plot to keep her out of the hands of baelish and or the lannisters. margaery replies that she will plant the seed of the idea after she and joffrey are married. sansa is skeptical joffrey will let her go but margaery is confident he will do it to please her , once she is his wife. after the match , ser loras' new squire olyvar flirts with him , which leads to them having sex back in loras' chambers. as they finish , loras mentions that he is engaged to be married... a fact that olyvar passes on to his real master , littlefinger , so he can pass the information on to cersei. loras and olyvar.
a short time later , littlefinger meets with sansa , offering her a place on his ship that will take him from the capital to the vale of arryn. sansa practices lying for a change , and tells him that they should wait until after joffrey's wedding , primarily because she fears for his safety if the plan fails. a master manipulator , littlefinger is clearly suspicious of her motives , but doesn't press the matter for the moment. instead he says he is touched by her concern for his safety , and insists that she call him petyr.
at the same time , tyrion lannister is engaged in a meeting with lady olenna tyrell with the upcoming royal wedding shaping up to be an extravagant and expensive affair , tyrion is concerned about the cost. olenna points out that the tyrells have done much to supply the city with soldiers and provisions to assist in the war effort , as well as the coming winter. olenna is bored to discuss financial matters , but quickly lists off specific details of the soldiers and supplies the tyrells are supplying to aid the crown , demonstrating that tyrion doesn't need to lecture her about wartime expenses. she insists that the royal wedding must go on as planned , as it will do much to improve the city's morale and keep the people happy , otherwise they will start blaming the lannisters for the war again. tyrion cannot outmaneuver olenna , but in the end she decides on her own that she won't have it said house tyrell isn't doing its part to help , so she agrees to pay for half the cost of the festivities , for which tyrion is grateful.
tyrion heads to the small council chamber to report success to his father tywin , only to find cersei present as well , much to his annoyance. tywin explains that the tyrells are plotting to wed sansa to ser loras and states that he will not allow them to steal the key to the north out from under him. tyrion questions how sansa is the key to the north , given that her older brother is still alive. tywin explains that the desertion of the karstarks have cost robb stark half his army , and combined with already being badly outnumbered by the lannister tyrell alliance his days are now numbered. theon greyjoy murdered robb's younger brothers at winterfell , which makes sansa robb's heir if he dies , rule of winterfell and the north goes to her and any man she marries... which tywin has no intention of letting the tyrells get their hands on. tyrion questions if it is wise to offend their allies by refusing the match , but tywin points out that as a plot against them , the tyrells' plan is , by definition , a secret , thus the lannisters can't be said to be refusing them something which they aren't officially trying to do. he also notes that the tyrells won't go through with their plan until after joffrey's wedding , which means they need to act first... namely by finding sansa another husband.
after a moment , tyrion realizes from the comments of his father and sister that they are talking about him. tyrion tries to protest , pointing out that joffrey has made sansa's life a living hell since the day he had her father executed and to force tyrion on her after she has finally escaped joffrey is cruel , even by tywin's standards. tywin questions if tyrion plans to mistreat sansa and asserts that he is not concerned with the girl's happiness and neither should his son. tyrion protests that sansa is a child , but cersei counters she has flowered and is a woman now who can bear children. tyrion flatly refuses , but tywin points out that recently he was complaining that he wasn't rewarded for his actions in the battle of the blackwater , and as heiress to the north , sansa is a far better reward than he could expect , and in any case , it is long past time tyrion was wed. at this , tyrion snarls that he was wed , referring to his past marriage to tysha , asking if his father has forgotten that. returning his son's hateful glare with one of his own , tywin retorts that he remembers all too well. tywin arranges some marriages.
cersei gloats over the matter , but her smug attitude quickly evaporates when her father commands that she will wed ser loras instead. cersei flatly refuses , but tywin is insistent the marriages of cersei and tyrion will place the north and the reach firmly in the lannisters' control. tywin points out that cersei is still fertile she needs to marry and breed. when cersei protests she is queen regent and not a brood mare , tywin angrily roars back that she is his daughter and will do as she is told she will marry loras and in so doing , put an end to what tywin calls the disgusting rumors stannis has been spreading about her and jaime. cersei switches to earnestly begging him , calling him father and pleading that he not force her into an arranged marriage a second time after her long and loveless marriage with king robert . tywin refuses to listen and storms out in disgust , raging that the pair have disgraced the lannister name for far too long. cersei slowly shifts her gaze toward tyrion to gauge his reaction to her distress but sees he is too glum about his own predicament.
 kissed by fire is the fifth episode of the third season of game of thrones. it is the twenty fifth episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 28 , 2013. it was written by story editor bryan cogman and directed by alex graves.
the hound is judged by the gods jaime is judged jon proves himself robb is betrayed tyrion learns the cost of weddings.

<The Climb>

 in the seven kingdoms.
in king's landing , lord tywin lannister meets with lady olenna tyrell to discuss having ser loras marry his daughter , cersei. they trade barbs about cersei's age , cersei's capability to have more children , and accusations of incest with jaime , as well as loras's well known homosexuality. tywin is adamant that cersei , whom he calls the kingdom's most beautiful woman , should marry loras , the kingdom's most handsome and desired bachelor , but olenna blatantly refuses to consent , hinting that joffrey is the result of incest. tywin replies that if that is true , he has no right to the throne and the tyrells just threw a flower into the dirt . olenna says she will not risk throwing another flower into the dirt if cersei cannot bear heirs for the tyrells. realizing her unchanged position on the matter , tywin threatens to make loras a knight of the kingsguard , which would force loras to give up his right to marriage and to inherit highgarden. olenna relents , and consents to the marriage of loras and cersei.
in the gardens , sansa stark tries to get closer to loras by discussing their hopefully impending wedding. loras is clearly uncomfortable being so close to her , but brightens when discussing the lavish wedding he's had planned although sansa , for once , becomes suspicious when she realizes that loras seems more excited by the food and the wedding joust than by her. loras quickly placates her with a compliment and then describes the wedding gown he's envisioned for her. sansa says she's looking forward to seeing highgarden , as she's only ever lived in winterfell and can't wait to leave king's landing. in this , loras finds unexpected common ground with her and agrees that the red keep is the most terrible place there is .
cersei and tyrion lannister observe the couple from cersei's chambers overlooking the garden. tyrion sarcastically asks which of the four of them has it the worst. he then finally accuses his sister of trying to have him killed during the battle of the blackwater. cersei , tired of fighting him , remains quiet while he deduces that only two people can command the kingsguard. tyrion realizes that while cersei certainly has the authority to command a kingsguard , she isn't stupid enough to command ser mandon moore to kill him in public. tyrion realizes that it was in fact joffrey who ordered ser mandon moore to kill him , because tyrion was the only one who stood up to him. cersei tells him his life is not in danger from joffrey , as he dare not try anything like that now that tywin is the hand. they discuss about jaime's possible return to king's landing , with cersei wondering where he could possibly be. she asks tyrion which one of them should be the one to break the news to sansa.
tyrion decides he might as well dash sansa's hopes sooner rather than later. he goes to sansa's chamber and asks for a private word , but sansa declines to dismiss shae. tyrion gives shae a carefully coded apology for not telling her in private before breaking the news to sansa.
later on , lord varys finds lord petyr baelish in the throne room. varys and baelish discuss the iron throne and the pageantry and propaganda that creates nations and cements dynasties. varys asserts that he serves the realm , but baelish scoffs that the realm is an invention of aegon the conqueror. baelish tells varys that he is aware of varys' arrangement with ros , and that he has given her to a friend who is eager for a new experience. baelish revels in the chaos that he has caused , likening chaos to a ladder for those brave enough to climb rather than a pit to be lost in , as varys and everyone else sees it.
 joffrey kills ros.
elsewhere , sansa weeps as baelish's ship departs , both of her plans to leave king's landing in tatters. meanwhile , joffrey coldly contemplates ros's quarrel ridden corpse.
in the riverlands , the hideout of the brotherhood without banners outside of hollow hill , anguy trains arya stark with a bow. anguy teaching arya how to shoot a bow better. arya spots someone behind her target , which is revealed to be melisandre and a small group of stannis baratheon's men. she speaks to thoros in high valyrian , demanding to know what became of his mission to convert robert baratheon to the worship of the lord of light. he bluntly tells her he failed. melisandre is brought to the brotherhood's hideout and is shocked when she learns of the six deaths of beric dondarrion , exclaiming that thoros should not have that kind of power. thoros counters that he has no power , he only asks for favors and the lord of light sees fit to grant them. the priestess seems troubled by his response or perhaps by the fact that the lord of light looks favorably on causes other than her own . melisandre says the brotherhood has someone the lord of light needs , and soon after has her men take gendry into her custody. arya protests , particularly when she sees that melisandre has given the brotherhood two heavy sacks of gold in exchange. she confronts the red priestess , calling her a witch. melisandre ignores the barb and looks into arya's eyes. she sees many other eyes , of many other colors eyes that arya will shut forever. melisandre abruptly tells her that they will meet again.
 edmure is enraged at having to marry roslin.
at riverrun , king robb stark and his advisors meet with black walder and lothar frey to discuss an alliance for his planned attack on casterly rock. the freys carry walder frey's demands for an alliance , which includes a formal apology from robb , the castle harrenhal and all of its lands and incomes , and for edmure tully to marry roslin , one of his daughters. edmure is reluctant to marry a woman he has never met , but is eventually convinced by the group to go through with the arrangement.
 jaime and bolton discuss jaime's release.
at harrenhal , lord roose bolton has dinner with jaime and brienne of tarth. bolton tells jaime he will send him to king's landing as restitution for his lost hand but only on the condition that jaime swear to tell his father that bolton was not personally responsible for maiming him. jaime assumes that brienne will accompany him , but bolton intends to keep her with him , under arrest for abetting treason.
in the north , tensions rise at camp between osha and meera reed before bran stark diffuses the situation. jojen reed experiences a seizure while sleeping , and meera explains they are caused by his visions. jojen then tells bran that in his vision he saw jon snow with the wildlings.
 theon is tortured elsewhere , the cleaning boy awakens theon greyjoy to continue torturing him. the boy threatens to remove theon's pinky finger if he cannot guess the boy's true identity and their current location. he gives the impression that theon guessed right when theon says he is the younger brother of torrhen karstark , rickard karstark's son , and that they are in karhold. but then , the boy tells theon he was lying , and begins flaying theon's finger while telling him that he is torturing theon only for his own amusement.
b.
 beyond the wall.
samwell tarly and gilly stop to camp during their journey to the wall after having fled craster's keep. sam shows gilly the dragonglass dagger he found at the fist of the first men and tells her about castle black.
 jon and ygritte kissing on the top of the wall.
at camp at the base of the wall , the wildling party led by tormund giantsbane prepare to climb. jon snow and ygritte talk about their impending climb and their relationship. ygritte reveals she is aware that jon is still loyal to the night's watch , but tells him he must be loyal to each other instead. while climbing , ygritte strikes the wall and causes a massive crack , which dislodges a large sheet of ice , sending several wildlings to their deaths. ygritte and jon hang precariously by their safety rope. orell decides that tormund cannot continue climbing with the weight of jon and ygritte's bodies pulling them down and begins cutting the rope. jon sees what orell is doing and barely manages to swing to his left and plant a hook in the ice , saving himself and ygritte. they reach the top of the wall , and ygritte is awed by the view beyond the wall and to the south , before she and jon share a passionate kiss.
 the climb is the sixth episode of the third season of game of thrones. it is the twenty sixth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 5 , 2013. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by alik sakharov.
tywin plans strategic unions for the lannisters. melisandre pays a visit to the riverlands. robb weighs a compromise to repair his alliance with house frey. roose bolton decides what to do with jaime lannister. jon , ygritte and the wildlings face a daunting climb.

<The Bear and the Maiden Fair>

 at the wall.
after surviving the perilous climb of the wall , jon snow , ygritte , and the wildlings led by tormund giantsbane make their way towards castle black to await mance rayder's signal to begin the attack on the night's watch. afterwards jon confronts orell about cutting his and ygritte's rope loose on the wall , nearly killing the both of them in the process. orell tells jon that he doesn't see ygritte complaining about what happened because she is a wildling and understood what needed to be done in a pressure situation , also telling jon that this is the reason he will never be able to keep her. during the journey through the woods , a clearly jealous orell confronts ygritte and says that he would be a better man for her than jon snow , while continuing to express his distrust in jon. jon also tries to persuade ygritte that the wildlings' cause is doomed to failure , but she refuses to listen and points out that jon is technically one of them if it fails , so does he. she renews her passion for him and tells him bluntly that if they die , they die , but before they die they will live in each other.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
daenerys targaryen's army marches on to the next great city of slaver's bay , yunkai. she and barristan selmy are confident they can take the city , given that yunkai are famous for training bed slaves rather than soldiers. ser jorah notes with wisdom however that yunkai's defenders won't fight them in open battle , being more likely to hole up behind their walls and chip away at the targaryen army with guerrilla tactics. he also advises daenerys that conquering yunkai does not help them with their main goal of pressing on to retake westeros. dany however is adamant on freeing the slaves of yunkai , who number in the hundreds of thousands. she orders grey worm to send a messenger to the city and inform yunkai's slaver rulers that they must either surrender or suffer the same fate as astapor.
the yunkish herald is carried into daenerys's camp on a litter carried by slaves , along a road flanked by unsullied. missandei announces the newcomer as razdal mo eraz , one of the ruling wise masters of yunkai. daenerys meets the man in her pavilion , flanked by her dragons who vie for her attention and fight over the pieces of meat she tosses to them they also snarl at razdal when he gets too close. razdal declares that yunkai was an ancient civilization long before the rise of valyria and that numerous armies throughout history have tried and failed to conquer it. however daenerys is not threatened , commenting that a hard fought battle would give her unsullied much needed practice. razdal tries a different tact , asserting there is no need for their factions to fight , that yunkai is willing to overlook her attack on astapor and will even provide her with the gold and ships needed to transport her army to westeros. in exchange , they ask that daenerys leave yunkai in peace.
daenerys makes a counter offer she will spare the lives of razdal and the slave masters of yunkai if every slave men , women and children in the city is set free , and given as much food , clothing and property as they can carry in payment for their services. she warns that if her offer is rejected , yunkai will be shown no mercy. razdal takes offense , promising that yunkai will be more of a challenge for her than astapor or qarth , and threatens her with the retribution of yunkai's powerful friends who he claims will take great pleasure in destroying her army and enslaving the survivors. at that , drogon and his siblings roar in anger razdal protests that he was promised safe conduct , to which daenerys counters that her dragons made no such promise and take offense to him threatening their mother. after the dragons prevent his slaves from reclaiming the chests of gold he brought with him , razdal storms out of the pavilion , muttering curses. daenerys tells jorah to find out more about yunkai's powerful friends before she commits herself to an attack on the city.
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
traveling back from the riverlands , a ship carrying melisandre and gendry leaves king's landing and passes through blackwater bay. melisandre stares at the broken wrecks of stannis's fleet destroyed by the wildfire , asserting that her presence might have turned the tide of battle. she questions gendry and is surprised to learn he is unaware of his father's real identity. as they pass by the red keep , melisandre reveals to gendry that he is king robert baratheon's bastard son.
in the north , on their way to the wall , bran stark's party makes camp. osha remains distrustful of meera and jojen reed and reacts with horror when they mention they intend to go beyond the wall. osha bluntly refuses to go , explaining that she lost her husband , who then rose from the dead and tried to kill her. she rages that none of them understand what lies beyond the wall and that there is nothing left for men there.
at the camp of the brotherhood without banners , arya , disillusioned with the brotherhood for selling gendry , takes an opportunity to escape and runs off into the night. before she gets too far , however , she is snatched up by sandor clegane , who was lying in wait for her.
in the riverlands , en route to the twins , robb stark's army is forced to make camp , their progress delayed by heavy rain. catelyn warns them that the prickly lord walder frey will take the delay as a deliberate insult to him , but edmure tully points out that frey is getting the wedding he wanted his sister counters that he is getting a wedding , but not the one he wanted , glaring at her son and his wife as she says so , pointing out that frey wanted one of his daughters wed to a king. robb retorts that edmure is the best match house frey has been offered in its history. later that night , as robb and talisa prepare for bed , she tells him she is pregnant with his child. robb is gladdened by the news.
at his prison , theon greyjoy is released from the cross to which he is chained by two beautiful girls. the women lay theon down on a bed and then proceed to dramatically seduce him. they say repeatedly that they have heard that the heir to pyke is well endowed and are hoping to get first hand experience. theon is distrustful at first , fearing that this is another of his tormenter's tricks. theon cannot help himself but be aroused when one of the women who has become naked straddles him and begins a rocking motion. suddenly , the familiar horn sounds and the boy enters. theon is terrified and tries to escape , but is struck hard on the head and is flung to the ground. the boy claims he too has heard about theon's famous body part and announces it must very well be his favorite body part. when the sadistic youth brandishes an odd knife , theon realizes the boy means to remove his penis. horrified , theon begs for mercy , but the boy quips that this is mercy as he's not killing theon , merely altering him. two large men hold a screaming theon down while the boy moves in to castrate him.
at king's landing , neither sansa or tyrion are particularly happy about their impending marriage. margaery tyrell consoles sansa , reminding her that tyrion is far from the worst lannister and that tyrion might be able to make her happy , given his skill as a lover. bronn , meanwhile , points out to tyrion that he can easily wed sansa and get a son and heir from her to placate his father and keep having sex with shae in private , thereby getting two women and a kingdom to rule for himself. however , tyrion is concerned his mistress isn't going to be so willing to go along with that plan and is less than enthusiastic about having a wife , a mistress and the entire north despising him. bronn points out that tyrion is wasting his time trying to be universally loved. tyrion's fears prove accurate as shae bluntly tells him that she will no longer sleep with him after he weds sansa.
meanwhile , tywin lannister enters the throne room to answer a summons from king joffrey. after exchanging some false courtesy tywin asks why his grandson wished to see him. joffrey wants an update on what the small council has been doing. tywin informs joffrey that the king can attend any small council meeting should he desire it. the boy king claims that he is too busy to attend said meetings and demands to know why the location of the council meetings has changed. tywin says that he is holding the meeting in the tower of the hand to save time. when joffrey complains that he would have to climb too many steps should he wish to sit in on a small council meeting , tywin silently ascends the steps to stand next to the throne , silently glares down at joffrey , and then sardonically says he could arrange to have joffrey carried. a disconcerted joffrey changes the subject to daenerys targaryen tywin is surprised that joffrey even knows about the exiled princess. tywin admits the reports are apparently true that the last targaryen is not only alive , but has successfully hatched the first live dragons the world has seen in almost two centuries. joffrey is puzzled at why tywin doesn't think they should do anything about her , but tywin reminds joffrey that the last targaryen dragons were stunted inbred creatures who weren't a threat to anyone , and daenerys' dragons are probably just curiosities at best , not grand weapons of war. moreover , tywin says that even if daenerys' dragons do turn out to be as strong as the dragons of centuries long ago , they are on the far side of the world and no threat to joffrey's rule. tywin also warns his grandson that he should heed his advisor's council on matters he does not comprehend. when joffrey protests that he hasn't been counseled on anything , tywin says he is being advised at this very moment and says that he will inform joffrey should he deem it necessary. before taking his leave tywin smiles slightly with an even slighter bow leaving a browbeaten joffrey squirming on the iron throne. their exchange leaves no doubt as to who is really ruling the kingdom.
at harrenhal , jaime speaks one last time to brienne before he leaves. jaime remarks that he owes brienne a debt for both keeping him alive on their journey and for giving him a reason to live to rouse him from his suicidal depression after losing his hand. brienne tells jaime to repay his debt by keeping his pledge. jaime promises that he will keep his word to return catelyn stark's daughters to her.
the next day , jaime leaves harrenhal in the company of qyburn who is to accompany jaime to continue treating his arm in the hopes of getting his maester's chain restored through lord tywin's influence jaime jokes that his father will make qyburn grand maester if he grows jaime a new hand and a number of bolton soldiers under the command of steelshanks , one of lord bolton's captains. lord roose bolton , who is also about to depart harrenhal for the twins , under orders from robb stark , requests that jaime pass on his regards to tywin jaime asks that bolton do the same for him with robb. locke , who has been left in charge of the castle in bolton's absence , can't resist poking fun at the departing jaime and sneers that he will 'take good care' of brienne , though jaime doesn't rise to the bait.
when their party makes camp , as qyburn checks jaime's stump , jaime questions how the former maester lost his chain. qyburn explains that he lost it for performing vivisections on the sick and dying in a bid to better understand illness. jaime is disgusted by this revelation , but qyburn counters what he learned has saved numerous more lives and questions jaime on how many he has killed compared to how many he's saved. jaime responds that he has probably killed thousands , but he saved half a million lives when he killed the mad king to save the population of king's landing , much to qyburn's surprise.
jaime then asks about brienne qyburn confirms that they sent a raven to her father , lord selwyn tarth , and he offered a ransom of 300 gold dragons for his daughter's safe return. however , locke refused the offer still under the misapprehension that tarth owns every sapphire mine in westeros , locke is convinced lord selwyn is trying to cheat him. when qyburn mentions that most of the men would rather get some meager entertainment out of killing brienne before they die in battle or winter , jaime , feeling guilty because his lie to protect brienne has invertantly placed her in greater danger , urges steelshanks to return to harrenhal. though the man initially refuses , jaime uses the promise of a reward and the threat of tywin lannister's retribution to convince him to go back.
upon arriving at harrenhal , jaime is shocked and furious to find locke and his cronies have thrown brienne into a bear pit , facing an angry bear with only a wooden sword to defend herself , as they all mockingly sing the bear and the maiden fair. jaime orders locke to pull her out and offers to pay whatever ransom he wants , but locke dismisses the offer , getting more satisfaction out of the spectacle of brienne being torn apart. in desperation , jaime leaps into the pit to help her before the bear can harm either of them , steelshanks shoots it with a crossbow , distracting the beast long enough for jaime and brienne to be pulled out of the pit. locke tries to stop them from leaving , but jaime angrily tells him that lord bolton cares more about getting him back to king's landing alive than keeping one of his pet thugs happy , and backed up by steelshanks and his men , locke is unable to stop them. jaime then departs harrenhal with his escort and brienne in tow.
 the bear and the maiden fair is the seventh episode of the third season of game of thrones. it is the twenty seventh episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 12 , 2013. it was written by series creator george r.r. martin and directed by michelle maclaren.
dany exchanges gifts with a slave lord outside of yunkai. as sansa frets about her prospects , shae chafes at tyrion's new situation. tywin counsels the king , and melisandre reveals a secret to gendry. brienne faces a formidable foe in harrenhal.

<Second Sons>

 across the narrow sea.
daenerys , jorah and barristan hide behind a ruined building to spy on the encampment of the second sons , a professional mercenary company , the powerful friends the yunkish have employed. barristan explains that although there are only 2 , 000 of them , the second sons are armored and mounted , enough to cause trouble for the unsullied. daenerys tells barristan to organize a meeting with the second sons' captains , saying that men who fight for gold can't afford to lose to a girl.
shortly thereafter , daenerys hosts the captains mero , a braavosi also known as the titan's bastard , and prendahl na ghezn , a ghiscari. also in attendance is prendahl's capable and striking lieutenant , daario naharis. the uncouth and sexually vulgar mero makes himself at home , observes that daenerys looks like a whore he knows in lys and feels up missandei , although the surprisingly gracious queen shrugs his insults off. prendahl and mero refuse daenerys' offer of an alliance , pointing out they will not get their rewards until she reclaims the iron throne , which is still a distant prospect. with aplomb she replies that a fortnight previous she had no army , and a year before that she had no dragons. smiling gently she gives them two days to make a decision and sends them off with a barrel of wine mero had demanded. daario smiles over his back at her as they depart. once the sellswords are gone , daenerys drops her pretence of cordiality and while glowering at mero's back , instructs barristan that if they must fight the second sons , he is to kill mero first. selmy replies that he would be glad to do so.
at the mercenary camp , mero fondles a yunkish pleasure slave while discussing the situation with prendahl and daario. it swiftly becomes apparent that daario and mero do not agree , but prendahl cuts off their philosophical discussion to call for action over the dragon bitch. they eventually decide to simply assassinate daenerys and be done with it. mero gives the slave three coins , one each from volantis , meereen , and braavos , and tells her to randomly give them to the three mercenaries the one who gets the braavosi coin will kill the queen.
 daario dressed as an unsullied holds a knife at missandei's throat.
that night , as daenerys bathes , she is surprised to learn that missandei speaks no fewer than nineteen languages. missandei says this shouldn't be that odd , since it only took daenerys a year to gain a reasonable grasp of dothraki. the khaleesi bristles at the idea she speaks only reasonable dothraki and switches to the language to teach missandei a lesson , only to have her pronunciation corrected. suddenly , an unsullied enters and hold a knife to missandei's throat , advising the women not to scream. he removes his helmet , revealing himself as daario. he explains that he is here to kill daenerys on orders from his captains , but they ran into a philosophical disagreement over her beauty. he then produces their severed heads. intrigued , daenerys rises from her bath and asks if daario will swear fealty to her. he bends the knee and swears his sword , his men and his heart to daenerys.
b.
 beyond the wall.
sam slays a white walker. samwell tarly and gilly continue on their journey to castle black , taking refuge in a destroyed cabin next to a heart tree. before they enter , two crows land on a branch on the heart tree , and begin to squawk loudly.
later at night , sam tries to light a fire , but is frustrated in his attempts gilly tries and does it easily. meanwhile , sam suggests that gilly name her son , but she does not know any boy names. sam gives her some examples , and also explains the difference between first and last names. gilly likes the name randyll , sam's father's first name , but sam asks her not to give the child that name. sam shares the truth about his father and his upbringing marked by cruelty which they both have in common.
suddenly , they are interrupted by a thunderous squawking of the crows. sam and gilly go outside to investigate , and discover hundreds of crows filling the nearby tree and on the structure itself screeching violently. gilly is then horrified to see a white walker approaching them , and knows that it is after her child. sam tries to halt its advance , but the walker shatters his sword with its bare hand and knocks him aside , then continues to bear down upon her. as the monster reaches out to seize the infant , sam staggers back to his feet , pulls out his dragonglass dagger , and attacks the walker , stabbing it in the back. the walker howls in pain as its whole body begins to freeze from the point at which it was stabbed. it falls to its knees , and shatters , leaving nothing but white dust and the dagger. the dagger is left behind as sam and gilly race away in a panic. the crows fly out of the trees and chase them , screaming their hatred.
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
arya stark , now a captive of sandor clegane after he kidnapped her from the brotherhood without banners , picks up a rock and stands over him planning to strike. she thinks he is sound asleep. he opens his eyes and tells her she has one chance to hit him , and kill him , but if she fails he will break her hands. later she sits on the horse with him sullen and refusing food he offers her. sandor points out that for all she hates him , arya could have been taken captive by someone far worse. he tells her about sansa and how he rescued her from a group of would be rapists. arya disbelieves this , but sandor says ask your sister if you ever see her again. they arrive at a river which arya initially thinks to be the blackwater. rather confused with her lack of understanding he points out that the river is the red fork of the trident. arya believed he was taking her back to king's landing , but he reveals that he is in fact taking her to the twins , where her mother and brother will shortly be attending her uncle's wedding , and he will ransom her to them. he tells her ruefully that if she wasn't so busy trying to kill him they might make it in time for the wedding. arya has a small and hidden smile as the hound spurs the horse to a gallop.
melisandre finally arrives back at dragonstone with gendry in tow. stannis is less than impressed by the sight of the bastard boy who is technically his nephew and is bemused when melisandre orders him fed , bathed and clothed. he believes it is pointless as they intend to sacrifice him , but melisandre reveals it is merely a sham to keep gendry feeling secure , in much the same way as keeping a sacrificial lamb from seeing the blade of the knife.
meanwhile , davos seaworth , still languishing in his cell , is paid a visit by stannis davos is told of the impending sacrifice of gendry. davos protests this saying that unlike renly who was a rebel against his rightful king , gendry is an innocent who has never done him any wrong. stannis argues that the sacrifice of one bastard boy will usher in his victory , which stannis believes is the only way to save every man , woman and child in westeros from the coming darkness that will devour everything in its path. he asks how davos can doubt the power of melisandre's god when stannis has seen visions of a great battle in the snow and davos saw the creature she gave birth to. davos speculates that the real reason stannis came is because deep down , a part of him knows what he's about to do is wrong and he knew davos would tell him the truth he needs to hear , regardless of how it would be taken. after extracting a promise from davos that he won't act against melisandre again , stannis has him released.
 stannis naming the 3 usurpers.
in gendry's quarters , melisandre seduces gendry long enough to distract him , then promptly ties him to the bed and places leeches on his body. she explains as stannis and davos enter the room that davos wanted a demonstration of the power in king's blood , then removes the leeches and lights a fire in a nearby brazier. as part of the magical ritual that follows , stannis throws the leeches into the flames at melisandre's direction , and recites the names of three people he wants dead as they burn the usurper robb stark , the usurper balon greyjoy , the usurper joffrey baratheon.
at king's landing , tyrion speaks with sansa before their wedding at the great sept of baelor though he knows the girl is not thrilled at the prospect of marrying him. tyrion promises sansa that he will not mistreat her , and sansa agrees there are worse lannisters she could be wed to. prior to the wedding , margaery tyrell tries to ingratiate herself to cersei , commenting they will technically be sisters soon cersei responds by telling margaery the story behind the rains of castamere , relating how it refers to the destruction of house reyne of castamere after their failed rebellion against house lannister inferring similarities between the ambitions and position of houses reyne and tyrell and that the same fate may fall upon house tyrell if they plot against the lannisters and concludes by threatening to have margaery strangled in her sleep if she ever dares call cersei sister again. the ceremony is a grim affair joffrey smugly escorts sansa to the altar in place of her father and petulantly removes the stool upon which tyrion was to stand on to cloak sansa in lannister colors as part of the ceremony , eliciting snickers from the congregation though the scowl of lord tywin quickly silences them . tyrion in the face of humiliation asks sansa to kneel and he places the cloak around her shoulders. the new high septon begins the ceremony. later as man and wife they have their reception dinner , which also proves a grim and miserable affair.
 tyrions threatens joffrey.
tyrion spends the wedding feast mostly by getting deeply drunk and making light of his father's insistence that his inebriated state will render him unfit to impregnate his wife. tyrion , drunkenly proclaiming himself the god of tits and wine , reminds his father that tywin has long called him a drunken little lust filled beast , so doing his duty in the marriage bed will not pose a problem. at the same time , joffrey is himself drinking too much wine , and losing what few inhibitions he has , his behavior becomes increasingly offensive to both sansa and tyrion. against cersei's ineffectual protests , joffrey gets up and , flanked by his kingsguard , taunts sansa that she's still found a way to marry a lannister. joffrey then ponders that it doesn't matter which lannister gets her pregnant , and openly says he might want to rape her after tyrion is done with her , while the kingsguard hold her down.
joffrey then declares it time for the bedding ceremony which involves the men at the wedding stripping the bride and the women stripping the groom before carrying them off to the marriage bed but tyrion angrily insists there will be no bedding ceremony. when joffrey keeps pushing the matter , tyrion slams his dagger into the table and threatens that joffrey will be fucking his own bride with a wooden cock if he doesn't let it drop. as the court stands in shocked silence , joffrey seethes with outrage and tyrion defiantly glares at his nephew with pure hatred. after a tense moment , tywin defuses the situation by agreeing that there will be no bedding ceremony , and placates joffrey by claiming tyrion's outburst is merely the result of his being extremely drunk. taking the hint , tyrion visibly swallows his anger and begins to act far more drunk than he actually is , intentionally humiliating himself , and says he only made a bad joke. it isn't clear if anyone in the room , including tywin or joffrey , think that tyrion's outburst was simply due to being very drunk , but everyone plays along anyway to help the tension pass. tyrion , while pretending to be so drunk he can barely stand , escorts sansa to their bedchamber.
once they are alone in their quarters , a tense moment passes as sansa nervously and slowly undresses. tyrion ultimately tells her to stop , deciding that he will not consummate the marriage if she does not want to , and only will if she changes her mind. when sansa questions what he will do if she never does , tyrion sarcastically jokes and so my watch begins implying that his marriage will be celibate for all time like a brother of the night's watch and then abruptly passes out on a nearby couch. the following morning , shae notices with a hint of a smile that sansa's bed sheets are not stained with blood and tyrion's virgin bride is still a virgin.
 second sons is the eighth episode of the third season of game of thrones. it is the twenty eighth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 19 , 2013. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by michelle maclaren.
king's landing hosts a wedding , and tyrion and sansa spend the night together. dany meets the titan's bastard. davos demands proof from melisandre. sam and gilly meet an older gentleman.

<The Rains of Castamere>

 across the narrow sea.
outside the walls of yunkai , daenerys targaryen and her commanders plan an attack on the city. her newest captain , daario naharis , suggests a plan using a lightly defended back gate , a small group can infiltrate the city and open the main gates for the rest of the army to invade. though jorah mormont is skeptical of both the plan and daario's loyalty , daenerys is convinced to try it when she asks grey worm if he trusts daario. upon being encouraged to speak his mind , he says he does. daario also touches her on her hand , flirting for her favor to him. as the captains depart , ser barristan asks to go along , but jorah reminds him that a queensguard's place is at the queen's side , regardless of his pride.
that night ser jorah , daario , and grey worm sneak into the city and fight their way through the slave soldiers guarding yunkai. there are far more soldiers than daario anticipated , much to jorah's irritation , but it seems that the three are evenly matched barely.
a few hours later , an impatient daenerys paces in her tent , asking barristan how long a sacking of a city usually takes. jorah and grey worm finally enter , covered in dust and gore but grinning widely yunkai is defeated. daenerys is elated , but asks after daario , who is still absent. after a suspenseful pause by jorah , daario strides into the room and kneels before the queen. he presents yunkai's torn flag and triumphantly says the city is hers.
a.
 at the wall.
north of the wall , samwell tarly and gilly continue their march south , after barely escaping an encounter with a white walker during which sam actually managed to kill the creature using a dragonglass dagger. .
 sam tells gilly about a way to get through the wall.
sam tells gilly that they are a considerable distance west of castle black , but this isn't a problem , because this means they are close to the nightfort , the original headquarters of the night's watch , which was abandoned centuries ago as the organization's numbers dwindled. sam explains that he plans to get them across the wall using a secret sally port which leads right into the nightfort. gilly is amazed that sam knows so much history just from reading books , insisting that he is a wizard much to sam's delight and is awestruck when she finally catches a glimpse of the wall.
meanwhile , bran stark and his group have passed far enough north that they have left the seven kingdoms proper , and entered into the gift a stretch of land south of the wall which was gifted to the night's watch thousands of years ago by brandon the builder , from which the watch draws support for its material needs. the reeds are puzzled , because the gift possesses good arable land but the countryside is empty. bran explains , to osha's discomfort , that wildling attacks coming over or around the wall caused most of the smallfolk to flee the gift over the centuries. meanwhile , the watch's diminishing numbers mean they don't really need that much support from the gift anymore , explaining why they haven't encountered any brothers of the watch working the lands either. bran's group takes shelter in an abandoned mill to get out of a thunderstorm.
nearby in the gift , jon snow and the wildling party encounter an old man who lives alone at a small farm where he breeds horses for the night's watch. they plan to attack him to steal his horses and gold , but jon insists that the old man is no threat to them. orell and tormund giantsbane intend to kill the man so as to stop him from alerting the night's watch to their presence. however , when the party attacks the farmstead , jon surreptitiously hits a rock with his sword , alerting the old man who flees jon also distracts ygritte when she tries to shoot the fleeing man with an arrow. while in the mill , bran and jojen reed discuss how they plan to cross the wall , before meera spots the old horse breeder riding nearby. after the old man is captured by the wildlings , hodor scared by the thunder begins yelling , which threatens to give away their location to the wildlings. bran uses his warg abilities to enter hodor's mind and cause him to pass out.
 summer attacks a wildling.
outside , tormund moves to kill the old man , but orell tells him to have jon do it instead to prove his loyalty. jon is ultimately unable to kill the innocent man , and instead ygritte kills the man with an arrow. realizing that jon is still loyal to the night's watch , tormund orders his men to kill jon tormund restrains ygritte to stop her trying to help jon , and soon after jon battles with orell. at the urging of jojen , bran enters the mind of summer , his direwolf , to aid jon. summer and shaggydog kill two wildlings threatening jon as he battles to the death with orell and finally kills him. with the last of his strength orell wargs into the mind of his pet eagle , which swoops down and attacks jon , clawing him badly about the face before he beats the bird off. jon then jumps to mount a nearby horse and escapes , leaving ygritte and heading back to the wall. .
 jon kills orell.
that night bran asks osha to take rickon who would be heir to winterfell if anything were to happen to bran or robb to last hearth , the home of house umber , while he , meera and jojen head through the wall in search of the three eyed raven. osha promises to look after rickon and orders the reed siblings to do the same with bran before she , rickon , and shaggydog depart in the dead of night.
a.
 at the twins.
robb stark's army arrives at the twins , the castle seat of house frey , for his uncle edmure's wedding. enduring lord walder frey's insults directed at him and his wife , robb makes a public apology to lord frey's daughters and granddaughters for breaking his promise to marry one of them. frey accepts the apology and offers the starks and their men his hospitality.
that night edmure is introduced to his bride roslin frey , discovering much to his relief that she is a beauty. the wedding and the feast that follows it are quite celebratory and lively affairs , with all the participants in high spirits. .
 edmure and his new bride.
edmure is clearly in love and his attentions are focused solely on his bride. as the celebrations reach their heights lord walder calls for the bedding ceremony. robb agrees and the bride and groom are carried off to their wedding bed , roslin carried off by the male guests and followed closely by edmure , who is collected by the frey women. brynden tully , having drunk too much wine , excuses himself from the celebration to find a tree to piss on.
after they leave and the festivities begin to wind down , catelyn becomes suspicious when she notices black walder rivers close the banquet hall doors and the musicians in the gallery begin playing the rains of castamere the song commemorating house lannister's decisive and brutal victory against the rebellious house reyne of castamere years ago. walder rises to make a toast to robb , and catelyn , seated beside lord roose bolton , notices that the latter is wearing mail under his clothing. realizing they are in a trap , catelyn slaps roose across the face and screams a warning to robb , but by then it is too late. lord walder signals his men to attack. .
 talisa is stabbed by lame lothar.
in what becomes known as the infamous red wedding , lothar draws a knife and repeatedly stabs the pregnant talisa in the stomach , killing her unborn child. talisa collapses to the ground as chaos surrounds. before he can react , robb is shot by the musicians with crossbows several times and falls to the ground. numerous other stark men are killed by the crossbow bolts or set upon by frey soldiers. catelyn is shot by one of the musicians in the back and falls to the ground.
outside , arya stark and the hound , having arrived at the twins in disguise , are turned away by frey guards at the time the massacre begins. arya gives sandor the slip and sneaks past the gate guards , only to witness frey men kill stark soldiers and grey wind , robb's direwolf. she makes a desperate run for the castle , but is stopped by the hound , who tells her that it is too late. when arya won't stop , sandor knocks her unconscious before carrying her out of the castle to safety.
 grey wind is shot dead by frey crossbowman.
a wounded catelyn crawls to safety beneath a table as walder motions the soldiers to cease. walder mocks robb as he limps to his dying wife. he holds talisa in his arms as she dies. catelyn sees an opportunity and limps out from under the table to seize out from under walder's table his cowering young wife , joyeuse. catelyn holds a knife to the girl's throat and threatens to kill her if walder does not negotiate an end to the attack. walder refuses her , recalling the previous betrayed oath made that robb would marry his daughter. she begs they take her hostage and that robb , who merely lingers despondent and heartbroken beside his wife's corpse , be allowed to leave. .
 catelyn kills walder frey's wife , the lady joyeuse , moments before being killed herself.
he questions why he should agree to such terms to which catelyn responds by swearing on her honor as both a tully and a stark that if he does not let robb go she will kill his wife. walder chuckles and nonchalantly responds , i'll find another. robb stands and utters , mother as roose bolton , who had fled the hall when the massacre began , seizes robb , whispering the lannisters send their regards , before stabbing him in the heart. robb maintains eye contact with catelyn as he collapses to the floor. mad with grief at the death of her firstborn son , catelyn cries out in anguish and kills walder's wife , fulfilling her promise. now catatonic with grief , she stands there and accepts her fate , allowing black walder to slip up behind her and viciously cut her throat. she falls to the floor with a thud.
 the rains of castamere is the ninth episode of the third season of game of thrones. it is the twenty ninth episode of the series overall. it premiered on june 2 , 2013. it was written by executive producers david benioff d.b. weiss and directed by david nutter.
robb presents himself to walder frey , and edmure meets his bride. jon faces his harshest test yet. bran discovers a new gift. daario and jorah debate how to take yunkai. house frey joins with house tully.

<Mhysa>

 in the seven kingdoms.
at the twins , the carnage at the red wedding continues to unfold. while the northern lords are being slaughtered in the main hall , outside the walls of the castle house frey soldiers ambush the stark army in its own camp. what follows is not a battle but a one sided massacre as the northern army is taken completely by surprise due to the betrayal of their supposed allies. the betrayers torch all of the camp's tents , with many men burning alive inside of them. frey men wildly mutilate the dead and dying. from one of the twin towers of the frey stronghold , roose bolton watches the massacre.
 robb's corpse desecrated , with his direwolf's head sewn in place of his own.
sandor clegane attempts to slip away amidst the carnage on a horse , along with the unconscious arya stark , by casually riding away while carrying a frey banner. before they can leave , arya regains consciousness as she and the hound turn to see a group of frey men shouting as they march through the main gate. the freys have horrifically desecrated robb stark's corpse by decapitating it , then crudely attaching the severed head of his direwolf grey wind in its place. drunk with victory , the freys gleefully parade the mutilated body around the castle on a horse while mockingly chanting king in the north king in the north here he comes , the king in the north , which is met with by cheers and peals of laughter from the crowds of frey soldiers.
sandor is horrified by the gruesome spectacle , while he holds arya , who looks on with a dead stare. the hound rides away with her , undisturbed thanks to the frey banner in his hand.
in the great hall of the castle the following morning , as servants clean up the pools of blood left by their former wedding guests , lords walder frey and roose bolton gloat over their victory and the rewards their treachery has won them. frey will become lord of riverrun , and the freys will replace the tullys as the lannisters' vassals in the riverlands. bolton has been appointed as the new warden of the north , replacing the starks though tywin lannister intends to eventually give the position to a future lannister heir produced by tyrion lannister and sansa stark.
bolton expresses his concern that brynden tully escaped the massacre , but walder dismisses his worries , pointing out that the blackfish and the remaining tully garrison at riverrun is alone and outnumbered against the combined strength of the lannisters , boltons , and freys , although bolton is still visibly concerned. bolton makes plain his contempt for robb stark , considering the late boy king arrogant , politically incompetent , and unwilling to take roose's advice and make the hard decisions needed to win. walder questions roose if he intends to rule the north from winterfell , and he says that he might move his ruling seat there at some future time , after it is rebuilt. this leads walder to ask how winterfell ended up a ruin. roose explains that his bastard son ramsay snow offered robb stark's terms that the ironborn occupiers would be shown mercy if they handed over theon greyjoy , but when they did they learned that ramsay , in his father's words , has his own way of doing things .
at the dreadfort , ramsay snow eats his breakfast of a thick sausage , taunting theon about his recent emasculation by pointing to his sewn up and blood stained trousers , and laughing as theon finally begs for death as a release from the nightmare. ramsay tells him that he is more valuable alive than dead so the answer must be no. ramsay notes that theon reeks , and decides that that shall be his new name reek. theon refuses to acknowledge the name , twice insisting that he is theon greyjoy , but after ramsay beats him , he finally breaks down and says his name is reek.
 on pyke , balon greyjoy reads a message from lord bolton's bastard while his daughter yara greyjoy cautiously opens a box crudely carved with the greyjoy kraken. as ramsay's letter explains the box contains theon's favorite toy. the message bluntly says that the ironborn have until the full moon to withdraw from the north or receive more bits and pieces of theon. in addition any remaining ironborn will be flayed alive just as ramsay flayed alive theon's twenty ironborn followers at winterfell after they surrendered , even though he had promised them safe passage. it was in fact ramsay snow and his soldiers from house bolton who burned winterfell to the ground he simply sent false reports for his father roose to deliver to robb stark which claimed that the ironborn were responsible , as the boltons were preparing to betray the starks months before the red wedding.
balon acts indifferent to theon's situation since he defied balon's orders and yara's common sense when he stayed at winterfell. furthermore , he cannot further the greyjoy line as the contents of the box prove. however , yara does not share her father's attitude toward her last living brother. she announces her intention to take her fastest ship with her fifty best men , sail around westeros , besiege the dreadfort , and liberate theon.
in the riverlands , a despondent arya stark and sandor clegane ride away from the outskirts of the twins. they pass close to a small group of frey men , one of whom is bragging about being one of the men who cut off grey wind's head and attached it to robb stark's body. arya approaches them and sweetly asks to warm herself by the fire. she offers the coin given to her by jaqen h'ghar as payment. when the frey man investigates , she stabs him in the neck. slightly thrown , the hound deals with the others before demanding to know where arya got the knife. she reveals it's his. he admonishes her to let him know the next time she plans to do something like that. as he grumbles and cleans up the bodies , arya whispers , valar morghulis .
meanwhile , in king's landing , tyrion lannister and sansa stark walk through the gardens. a pair of passing gentlemen snigger at tyrion , either for his dwarf status or due to rumors he has not consummated his marriage. sansa tells him to pay them no mind. tyrion reminds sansa that he's used to it , as he's always been a dwarf. he also states that he's not joffrey , tyrion would rather bide his time and humiliate them. sansa playfully follows his line of thinking , and suggests sheep shifting secretly hiding sheep's dung deep within a mattress as arya used to do to her , so that the target always wakes up smelling of dung. tyrion is amused but is confused by the term , though he realizes belatedly that sansa has misheard the word shit . he is rescued from having to explain his wife's mistake by podrick payne , who calls him to a meeting of the small council.
in tywin's chambers grand maester pycelle dithers over giving tyrion a coded message from lord frey. joffrey jubilantly explains its meaning that robb and catelyn stark are both dead. tyrion is visibly startled by the news , already foreseeing the long term problems that the incident will cause , but joffrey brushes him off and gleefully states that he intends to serve robb's severed head to sansa at his wedding feast. none of the small council are able to mask how distasteful they find the concept. varys points out that sansa is joffrey's aunt by marriage now and it would be unseemly not to give her the basic respect that accords .
a deeply embarrassed cersei forces a smile and insists to the rest of the council that joffrey was only joking and did not mean it. this puzzles joffrey , who matter of factly states to his mother that he did mean it , and he will have robb's head served at his wedding feast. tyrion flatly forbids it and tells joffrey that sansa isn't his to torment anymore. joffrey angrily proclaims that he is the king , and everyone is his to torment. tywin counters that a king who has to remind his subjects that he is the king , is no king. joffrey goes apoplectic and tries to fight his grandfather , deriding tywin as a coward who hid under casterly rock while joffrey's father king robert won the real war when he overthrew the targaryens. the entire small council tenses waiting for tywin to respond to this shocking insult instead tywin coldly and calmly declares that the king is tired and advises the queen regent to see him to bed. joffrey weakly protests that he is not tired but leaves with his mother , and tywin also asks pycelle to give his grandson a sedative to make sure he goes to sleep.
tywin dismisses the rest of the council , save tyrion , who drily notes that the lord of the seven kingdoms has been sent to bed without his supper. he confronts tywin about his part in the red wedding , and deduces that his father must have orchestrated it , as walder frey is not brave enough to have carried it out on his own. the hand blithely confirms this. he dismisses tyrion's concerns that the northerners will never forget nor forgive such an outrage , arguing he wants them to remember so that it will make them wary of rebelling again. tyrion shows his distaste for tywin's choice of a wedding as the place to inflict the slaughter , but tywin responds , asking why killing ten thousand soldiers in battle is nobler than killing a dozen guests at a wedding.
tywin again waxes poetic about family , noting tyrion's failure to consummate his marriage to sansa. tyrion refuses to force himself on sansa to do his duty , and notes that she is hardly likely to warm to him now that the lannisters have murdered her mother and brother. tyrion demands to know when tywin ever put the family's interests above his own. tywin retorts that he did exactly that on the day that tyrion was born he wanted to throw his newborn son into the sea , but instead he spared him and raised him as his son , because he is a lannister.
immediately after leaving , tyrion returns to his chambers and calls for sansa , who simply regards him with a forlorn , tear streaked face confirming that she was already informed of her family's death. tyrion backs out , knowing that his sympathy would be rather cold comfort.
elsewhere in the red keep , varys meets with shae. he tells her that he knows she is genuinely in love with tyrion and that is why she should take the diamonds he offers her and leave immediately for essos to build a new , lavish life for herself. varys is convinced that tyrion is the last hope for the seven kingdoms' current regime , therefore shae is a weakness that tyrion , and thus the realm , cannot afford. shae confirms that she is in love with tyrion and that she cares deeply for sansa as well , but in spite of her pain at seeing them together and the danger she poses , shae will not leave until or unless tyrion asks her to.
unknown to everyone in king's landing , jaime lannister , brienne of tarth , and qyburn finally arrive the city folk do not even recognize jaime after his long absence from the capital. they make their way to the red keep , where jaime immediately calls on cersei , who regards him with a confused look as she takes in his disheveled appearance and missing hand.
at dragonstone , ser davos seaworth tests his new found literacy on stannis baratheon's correspondence , declining shireen baratheon's invitation to read more tales of aegon i targaryen. he expresses dissatisfaction about the odd spelling of the word night , before hearing the horns that signal melisandre's intents to sacrifice gendry. he argues with stannis again about sacrificing the boy , but stannis is convinced by melisandre that using gendry as part of her blood magic will give him the power to destroy his enemies and claim the iron throne. when he doesn't get through to his liege , davos takes matters into his own hands and frees the boy , giving him a rowboat and directions to king's landing. a furious stannis sentences davos to death but the onion knight produces a letter from the night's watch. davos insists that it is stannis' duty to assist the black brothers , and that he will need davos's assistance to rally troops and mercenaries. melisandre burns the letter and acknowledges the truth the war of the five kings is irrelevant. the true war lies in the north , and evil and death are marching on the wall. she also agrees that davos has an important role to play in the events to come. stannis sarcastically laughs at r'hllor's sense of humor , noting that the god davos likes to mock has chosen him for a higher purpose.
a.
 at the wall.
arriving at the abandoned nightfort , meera reed tells bran , hodor and jojen that the castle is safe to enter. while around the fire bran tells the story of the rat cook , a night's watch member who killed a guest under his roof , a sin the gods cannot forgive. later that night , bran is awoken by a sound , and wakes his companions in time to see something large climbing out of the castle well meera attacks and overpowers the intruder , who is revealed to be samwell tarly , accompanied by gilly. sam quickly deduces bran's identity by recognizing bran's direwolf and hodor. bran asks sam to take him and his group north of the wall , and though sam protests the idea , given the threat of the white walkers and the undead horde they command approaching , he eventually relents and takes them through the passage. before they separate sam gives the group the rest of his dragonglass supply and tells them that it has the power to kill white walkers. the groups then head in different directions sam and gilly for castle black , and the reeds , hodor , and bran beyond the wall.
at castle black , sam and gilly meet with maester aemon , who is furious at the prospect of sam having violated his vows. sam defends himself by reciting the night's watch oath to protect the realms of men whatever side of the wall they are on and repeating jeor mormont's assertion that a wall of ice 500 miles long and 700 feet high was not built to keep out barbarians. aemon's demeanor softens upon learning that gilly was one of craster's wives , and acknowledges that she is now a refugee and should be sheltered. aemon then orders sam to begin writing letters immediately and make sure that all forty four of castle black's ravens are well fed , as every one of them is to fly that night the white walkers have returned , and westeros must be warned.
stopping to rest and tend to his injuries after fleeing the wildlings , jon snow finds himself confronted by a furious ygritte , who has an arrow ready to shoot him. jon tries to talk ygritte out of shooting him , insisting that he still loves her but that she should have known his loyalty to the watch was never gone. though his feelings are clearly reciprocated , ygritte is still angered by his betrayal and shoots jon three times with her bow as he flees from her , watching him go with tears in her eyes.
jon is badly injured , but his horse manages to carry him the rest of the way to castle black , as he hovers in and out of consciousness. having reached safety , jon is brought inside the castle by the guards , where he encounters sam and pypar , who are overjoyed to see him and insist that his injuries be taken care of.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
outside the walls of yunkai , daenerys targaryen and her advisors wait for the city's slaves to appear. daenerys frets that the yunkish slaves , who are better treated than astapor's might have grown to like their chains and will not welcome freedom. finally , the gates open and the freedmen pour out. missandei begins to tell them of how daenerys the unburnt freed them , but daenerys interrupts and says that it is the slaves' own choice to reach for their freedom. after a moment , one of the freedmen stretches his hand towards daenerys and calls out mhysa . after a moment , another follows suit , then another and another until the entire crowd is chanting mhysa . bewildered , daenerys turns to missandei , who reveals that the word means mother in the old ghiscari language. when the slaves advance on daenerys , the unsullied step into formation , but the queen tells them to stand down. telling her dragons to fly , daenerys steps out of the protection of the unsullied and into the crowd , who carry on their chanting. daenerys is embraced by the former slaves , offering a glimmer of hope in an increasingly darker and hopeless world.
 mhysa is the tenth and final episode of the third season of game of thrones. it is the thirtieth episode of the series overall. 1 it premiered on june 9 , 2013. it was written by executive producers david benioff and d.b. weiss and directed by david nutter.
joffrey challenges tywin. bran tells a ghost story. in dragonstone , mercy comes from strange quarters. dany waits to see if she is a conqueror or a liberator.

<Two Swords>

 in king's landing.
tywin lannister has the ancestral stark valyrian steel greatsword ice held by the lannisters since eddard stark's execution melted down and re forged into two smaller swords , after which he burns the wolf pelt scabbard the greatsword was held in. he presents one to his son jaime as a gift. jaime is impressed , as the lannisters have never previously owned a valyrian steel sword. tywin tells him he acquired the original sword from someone who no longer needed it and then commissioned a volantis blacksmith to re forge it. he wants jaime to be his heir and return home to casterly rock , but jaime insists on remaining in the kingsguard. furious at jaime's disobedience and lack of ambition , tywin rebuffs him. he tells jaime to keep the sword anyway.
tyrion lannister , bronn , and podrick payne wait on a road outside the city for the arrival of prince doran martell of dorne , who has been invited to the royal wedding. tyrion quizzes bronn on the sigils of the dornish houses , none of which he knows , however podrick answers perfectly. lord blackmont approaches them on horseback and says prince doran is in poor health and remained at sunspear. doran's brother , prince oberyn , will be attending the wedding in his stead , and arrived before dawn. assigning the reception of the dornish lords to the city watch , tyrion says they should find oberyn as soon as possible before he kills somebody or several somebodies .
prince oberyn and his bastard paramour ellaria sand are examining prostitutes in a brothel owned by petyr baelish , but currently managed by olyvar , as lord baelish is now in the vale. they choose the contortionist marei , and oberyn orders olyvar to get undressed also. oberyn is infuriated when he hears men singing the rains of castamere. he confronts the two lannister soldiers , who insult him and ellaria. oberyn moves closer and chastises them for being pink little men who are far too slow on the draw rather than being golden lions . one of the soldiers reaches for his sword , and oberyn quickly stabs him through the wrist with a dagger and tells the other that his friend will only live if he immediately gets help. tyrion and bronn enter , and oberyn and tyrion step outside to speak privately. oberyn says he wants revenge for the murder of his niece rhaenys , his nephew aegon , and the rape and murder of his sister elia in the sack of king's landing by lannister troops during robert's rebellion. he wants gregor clegane , who murdered elia , and tywin , whom oberyn believes gave the order for elia and her children to be killed.
tyrion , sansa , shae , and another handmaiden are sitting in a garden. sansa is still distraught over the deaths of her brother and mother. tyrion attempts to console his wife but fails sansa has heard the gruesome details of the red wedding , how the corpses of her mother and brother were desecrated. sansa then leaves for the godswood , not to pray but because it is the only place no one talks to her. tyrion returns and finds shae in his bed. he scolds her because no one can find out about their relationship. she attempts to seduce him but he resists. she accuses him of trying to bribe her with diamonds and ship her away to the free cities , but he doesn't know what she's talking about varys did this acting alone . she angrily leaves the room but is spotted by the handmaiden , who is hiding behind a pillar.
jaime , cersei , and qyburn are in cersei's chambers. cersei has had a golden prosthetic hand made for jaime , and qyburn attaches it to jaime's stump. qyburn asks cersei about her symptoms , and she says they are gone. after qyburn departs , jaime tells her that he will stay in the kingsguard with one hand so he can stay close to her , then tries to kiss her , but she turns away , much to jaime's confusion and anger. cersei implies that she has taken other lovers and that their relationship has changed because of his lengthy absence , a statement that clearly wounds jaime. the handmaiden suddenly enters and says she has important information for cersei.
as preparations for the royal wedding continue , margaery tyrell and her grandmother olenna are interrupted by brienne of tarth , olenna being delighted to see the truth of the rumors about brienne who requests a private word with margaery. brienne tells margaery the truth of renly's death and vows to one day exact revenge on stannis baratheon , whom she holds responsible. they walk past a statue of king joffrey standing over a dead direwolf , commemorating the victory over the northern rebellion.
elsewhere in the red keep , jaime , ser meryn trant and king joffrey discuss security at the upcoming wedding. jaime is clearly irked by joffrey's arrogance as well as meryn's sycophantic agreement with the king's bragging that he is responsible for keeping the people fed jaime notes that this is more the doing of the tyrells and claiming he singlehandedly won the war. jaime who had previously noted to his father that thousands in king's landing alone still want joffrey dead points out that the war is far from won stannis is still alive and will probably raise fresh armies. dismissive of the threat posed by stannis following the battle of the blackwater , joffrey leafs through the book of brothers , which details the history of the kingsguard and those who served in it. he reads jaime's brief entry and sneers that someone must have forgotten to record all of his uncle's great deeds. he also questions jaime's ability to serve in the kingsguard with one hand. jaime defensively quips that using his left hand makes for more of a challenge.
as sansa prays alone in the godswood , she is watched by jaime and brienne brienne expects jaime to uphold his oath to return catelyn stark's daughters in return for his freedom , but jaime counters by pointing out the situation is complicated by catelyn's death and sansa's marriage to tyrion. as sansa is leaving the godswood , she is approached by dontos hollard , who thanks her for convincing joffrey to spare his life and gives her what he claims to be his mother's necklace as a token of gratitude.
i.
 in the north.
ygritte and tormund stand outside a stone ravine. tormund chides her for failing to finish off jon snow. suddenly , their scouts signal that someone is approaching. styr and a band of thenn approach them through the ravine. out of earshot , tormund comments about how much he hates thenns. styr says his party raided a village south of the ravine and gathered meat. he says the meat tastes so much better south of the wall , and chides tormund for losing their warg as well as jon. he reminds tormund how the night's watch are feasting and getting fat at castle black. styr suggests that tormund taste crow meat before he dies , as a human arm roasts over a fire.
a.
 at the wall.
at castle black , jon snow has survived the injuries inflicted by ygritte and has largely recovered , though he still grimaces while getting dressed and walks with a slight limp. having been told of robb's death , jon shares with samwell tarly that he had always been jealous of robb for having more of their father's affection and for being better than him at riding and fighting , and with girls. despite all this , he says he could never bring himself to hate robb. sam responds by saying he has felt the same way about jon , that jon is better than him at everything except reading .
it turns out that sam had been sent to retrieve jon , who has been summoned to testify before a panel of five sworn brothers , including maester aemon , acting lord commander alliser thorne , first builder othell yarwyck , and the exiled former lord commander of the king's landing city watch , janos slynt. both thorne and slynt are openly hostile to jon , disbelieving much of what he says. at the hearing , jon admits to killing qhorin halfhand but says that it was not murder , rather qhorin wanted jon to kill him to give jon credibility with the wildlings in order to get a spy into mance's army. slynt dismisses jon as the bastard son of a traitor while thorne , a friend of qhorin's , reacts with incredulity that jon would presume to act like he knew the halfhand. jon responds by saying that thorne should know that qhorin would have done anything to protect the night's watch.
when jon refers to the wildlings as free folk , slynt accuses him of going native , to the extent he even talks like them. jon snaps back , acknowledging that he talks like a wildling and also admits to living amongst the wildlings , eating with them , and climbing the wall with them. he catches himself before admitting that he lay with one , but says it anyway. slynt calls for jon's execution for breaking one of his vows. aemon points out the impracticality of executing every ranger who lays with a girl and says that the wall would be manned by headless men. thorne says that there is a difference between sneaking off to a brothel and sleeping with the enemy.
jon does not defend himself at this point. instead , he says that mance rayder intends to attack the night's watch with his army of 100 , 000 wildlings and gives intelligence on mance's plan of attack. both thorne and slynt disbelieve what jon has to say. aemon , however , realizes that jon is speaking the truth , and the hearing ends with jon being allowed to keep his head , although after jon leaves , thorne expresses his distrust for jon.
i.
 in the riverlands.
arya stark and the hound sandor clegane are still traveling through the riverlands on a single horse. they pass by overturned carts and dead bodies , including those of children. arya asks when she is going to get her own horse , complaining of the hound's stench. he scoffs at the idea , noting that horses are hard to come by and that he wouldn't give arya her own horse even if one was available as she is the only thing of value he has since he did not take anything of value when he left king's landing. arya assures him she has no plans to run off , saying that she would die by nightfall without him as she has no one to go to. the hound reminds her that she still has an aunt in the vale , lysa arryn , to whom he plans to ransom arya.
the two eventually come upon a tavern. both hungry , arya suggests that they attack the men there , to which the hound expresses reluctance as there are five men. just then , two men exit to relieve themselves. arya recognizes one of them as polliver , the lannister man at arms who had previously taken arya's sword needle and killed her friend lommy. she also notices that polliver still has needle and runs off to get it back. the hound chases after her , stopping her at the tavern's door , but they are seen and choose to go in anyways.
it is clear that polliver and the other men are making trouble and intend to rape the tavern owner's daughter. arya and the hound go to a table far away from everyone else , but polliver still recognizes the hound and walks over to their table and strikes up a conversation. he does not recognize arya , who he thinks is just the hound's latest sexual conquest. polliver implies that he and his men intend to rape and pillage on their way back to king's landing and invites the hound to come along. polliver says that he and his men wear the king's colors and can do whatever they like , to which the hound leans forward and states emphatically , fuck the king.
the conversation then becomes tense and turns into a standoff. they eventually draw their swords. at first , the hound fights the five men alone while arya stands in the corner. he easily dispatches two of them and fights off the rest , stabbing one in the groin. another , however , gets him on the ground , holding a dagger to his throat. the hound is able to fight him off , stabbing him repeatedly in the head with his own dagger.
arya then joins the fray , smashing a pot over the head of one of the men and stabbing him with his own long sword. she then slashes polliver's leg from behind , causing him to fall to the ground. arya takes needle from polliver and stands over his prone form. she echoes what he had said to lommy just before he killed him , though polliver still doesn't recognize her and has no idea what she is talking about. arya then repeats what he had said to her when he took needle fine little blade. maybe i'll pick my teeth with it. it is at that point when polliver recognizes her and becomes frightened. arya then kills polliver in the same way he had killed lommy by driving needle slowly into his throat. arya and the hound then leave the tavern , taking with them a horse for arya and a chicken the hound wanted.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
daenerys targaryen sits near the sea with her three dragons , each one about the size of a small horse. daenerys strokes drogon's head , while rhaegal and viserion fight over a dead lamb , drogon joins the fight. as daenerys tries to calm him down , without warning , drogon snaps at her with a hiss , a warning to not interfere. he then roars and goes to contest the kill.
 drogon snarls a warning at his mother.
this act , that her own children would threaten her , and that they are outgrowing her influence and ability to rein them , leaves daenerys visibly shaken. jorah mormont approaches and tells her that dragons can never be tamed , not even by their mother.
daenerys returns to her unsullied army to resume the march to meereen. she notices grey worm and daario naharis are absent and sets out to find them after being told they are gambling . she finds the two men sitting face to face holding their swords in front of them they have been contesting their strength since midnight. daario explains they are deciding on which of them will ride up front with her in the vanguard. frustrated , daenerys states that the honor goes to ser jorah and ser barristan as they did not keep her waiting all morning. she orders the two men to ride at the back with the livestock. daenerys also adds that the last man holding his sword shall find a new queen to fight for and both men immediately drop their weapons.
on the road to meereen , daenerys speaks with missandei , who tells her queen that meereen would be wise to fear her approach. daario meets them on the cliff side , and daenerys expresses her annoyance when he shows her flowers he has picked. he reveals that the flowers represent a portrait of the landscape , and serve various purposes , chiefly that knowing her surroundings is important to daenerys' strategy.
the marching army halts , and daenerys goes to the forefront , discovering a slave child crucified upon a cross. the child is dead , her hand pointing the way to meereen , and ser jorah tells daenerys there is one for each mile to the last of the great slave cities , 163 in total. ser barristan offers to have outriders go ahead to bury them , but daenerys refuses , ordering that each of them be buried , and their collars removed , but not before she has looked upon each and every face.
 two swords is the first episode of the fourth season of game of thrones. it is the thirty first episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 6 , 2014. it was written and directed by executive producers david benioff and d.b. weiss.
tyrion welcomes a guest to king's landing. at castle black , jon snow finds himself unwelcome. dany is pointed to meereen , the mother of all slave cities. arya runs into an old friend.

<The Lion and the Rose>

 at dragonstone.
on the beach of dragonstone , melisandre presides over a public burning ceremony , setting three people chained to stakes ablaze as an offering to the lord of light. one of the condemned is queen selyse baratheon's own brother axell florent , condemned for his lack of faith in the lord's power. watching the proceedings , ser davos seaworth holds his tongue , though his disgust both for the ritual and melisandre are plain. melisandre is surprisingly silent throughout the proceedings it is selyse who takes the greatest pleasure in the ritual.
afterwards , stannis and selyse eat dinner , with melisandre as a guest at their table. the royal couple argue over their daughter , princess shireen baratheon selyse believes the girl's disfigurement is a punishment from the lord of light , but stannis angrily forbids his wife from trying to physically chastise their daughter for her perceived faults. selyse switches tactics and suggests that melisandre speak to shireen. stannis doesn't protest , but melisandre doesn't look particularly interested in the task. nonetheless , melisandre does speak with shireen , who heard the death of her uncle from her bedroom window , explaining in gentle yet matter of fact terms that the faith of the seven and its holy books are lies melisandre insists there are only two gods , the lord of light and the great other , constantly at war. when shireen asks if there is any truth to the faith's belief in seven heavens and seven hells , melisandre replies there is only one hell... the one we live in now .
a.
 at the dreadfort.
in the forests surrounding the dreadfort , the seat of house bolton , ramsay snow hunts a peasant girl for his sport , accompanied by theon greyjoy whom ramsay now addresses by his new name , reek and myranda , along with a pack of savage dogs. the girl is eventually brought down and torn to pieces by the dogs , much to reek's horror.
soon after , roose bolton arrives at the dreadfort accompanied by a detachment of his army , including locke and roose's new wife , walda bolton. ramsay greets his father and his new step mother as well as privately congratulating locke for his maiming of the kingslayer . roose wants to see ramsay's captive theon greyjoy.
theon is brought to roose's chambers , where roose is disgusted and angered to learn ramsay has tortured and flayed theon as balon greyjoy's sole surviving male heir , theon was a valuable hostage. roose notes that while he has been named warden of the north , tywin lannister will not help him reclaim the north from the ironborn , and he had intended on trading theon for moat cailin , a strategically placed fortress on the border between the north and the riverlands currently held by greyjoy forces , preventing the main bolton army from returning north. ramsay retorts that he already sent terms and balon refused him. roose is furious that ramsay did so without his consent , but ramsay demonstrates that his actions have made reek docile and unable to betray them.
after ordering reek to shave him , ramsay cajoles him into admitting that bran and rickon stark are still alive. ramsay reminds his father that the boys are now heirs to house stark's rule of the north following robb stark's death , and nearly all the northerners , who are furious at house bolton and house frey's treachery against the starks , will rally behind bran and rickon rather than roose if they learn the boys are alive. ramsay , knowing how close theon was to robb , gleefully taunts him by revealing details of the red wedding , particularly relishing the fact that it was roose who personally murdered robb. despite being clearly shaken to know the man he considered a brother is dead at the hands of his new masters , theon does not openly react.
roose dispatches locke with orders to find and kill bran and rickon reek suggests that jon snow might either be sheltering the boys at castle black or at least may know where they have gone , while ramsay advocates killing jon as well , given that the fact he has stark blood could lead to him becoming a threat , since the northeners will rally behind him or he will simply seek revenge although harming jon would constitute a grave crime since he is part of the night's watch and thus legally untouchable by the seven kingdoms . roose gives ramsay orders as well to take theon and an army to moat cailin and reclaim the fortress from the greyjoys. if he succeeds , roose will give consideration to legitimizing ramsay as a member of house bolton.
b.
 beyond the wall.
we follow the point of view of a panting figure traveling through a dark , snow covered forest. it kills a deer. just as the figure makes its kill , it is revealed that the figure is summer and that bran stark had been warging into summer. bran's warging is interrupted by meera reed , who says that bran had been gone for hours. bran is not happy about having been snapped out of his warging , saying that he was eating. jojen reed clarifies that summer was eating and that what bran cannot gain sustenance from what summer eats. jojen and meera also caution bran that warging so long is dangerous for other reasons. even though it allows bran the mobility he lost when he was injured , bran would become trapped , forgetting his friends , his family , his home , and even himself. and if bran forgets himself , they all lose everything.
the group breaks camp and continues traveling through the forest. they eventually come upon a weirwood tree. bran has hodor take him to the tree. bran touches the tree just under the face carved into it and sees a vision. several images rush to bran's mind , including swarms of crows , wights both human and horses , and the fall that paralyzed him. he also sees the three eyed raven taking flight in a darkened corridor and later land on a tree. bran sees his father sharpening ice , in the black cells , and being led to his execution the red keep abandoned and covered in snow and the shadow of a dragon flying over king's landing. bran also sees several images of a different weirwood tree located on top of an otherwise barren mountain. during the vision , a gravely voice tells bran to look for me beneath the tree... north. bran snaps out of his vision out of breath , but then matter of factly states , i know where we have to go. .
a.
 at king's landing.
over a meal , jaime and tyrion discuss jaime's gilded steel hand , and he discloses to tyrion that he can no longer fight , as all of his instincts are wrong using his left hand. jaime is perturbed that people will find out that he cannot fight so tyrion tells him that he needs to train with his left hand with someone trustworthy in order to better protect the king , as the lord commander of the kingsguard.
 brienne presented before king joffrey and queen margaery at their wedding.
later , jaime waits in a courtyard by the sea for his training partner that tyrion has arranged. bronn emerges with two training swords. jaime remarks that he hasn't wielded a sparring sword since he was nine. as they commence training , bronn uses his usual dirty tactics and gets the better of jaime , teaching him not only to use his offhand , but encouraging him to fight dirtier.
tyrion finds varys on his way to a breakfast celebration on the day of joffrey's wedding. varys divulges that shae has been spotted and that his sister , cersei , has been notified. varys then says that there is nothing he can do to protect shae any longer in fear of tywin lannister , the hand of the king , or cersei finding out that he has been lying to them. tyrion then says that shae will not leave king's landing and is warned that tywin has threatened to hang the next whore tyrion is seen with.
 the dais set up for the royal wedding.
at the breakfast celebration , mace tyrell gifts joffrey a magnificent golden chalice with seven facets , one for each of the major houses in the seven kingdoms and wishes he and his daughter , margaery tyrell , a long and happy marriage. joffrey graciously accepts. cersei spots shae and tells tywin that she is tyrion's whore , and he commands for her to be sent to the tower of the hand before the wedding. tyrion overhears this and looks vexed , but proceeds to approach joffrey and podrick payne , tyrion's squire , presents him with the lives of four kings , a book detailing the reigns of four kings by grand maester kaeth. joffrey accepts the gift but his sincerity seems questionable. a member of the kingsguard then presents a valyrian steel sword and tywin tells him that it is one of two swords of its kind in the capital , and joffrey rushes to wield it. he promptly begins to slash at tyrion's gift despite its rarity , and then asks for suggestions on its name from guests in attendance. he settle on the name widow's wail.
after the breakfast , tyrion is visited in his chambers by shae and he informs her that there is a ship waiting for her bound for pentos and that their friendship is at an end. shae pleads to stay , but tyrion says he is married and it is too dangerous for her to stay. .
 joffrey is poisoned and killed.
when bronn enters and tries to escort her out , she slaps him and runs away. when tyrion later asks bronn if she is gone , he says that she boarded the ship. when tyrion asks if he saw it sail away , bronn assures him that no one has been following him while escorting her , that she is gone and no one knows about it except the two of them and varys. he then advises tyrion to go and drink until it feels like he did the right thing.
joffrey and margaery's wedding ceremony takes place in the great sept of baelor conducted by the high septon and they are wed in front of gods and men. at his wedding feast , king joffrey speaks to the crowd about contemplating history. out of a large golden lion , five dwarves ride out , representing joffrey , renly baratheon , stannis baratheon , robb stark , and balon greyjoy , each of the five kings in the war of the five kings. the dwarves put on a performance , jousting , fighting , and making crude sexual acts. joffrey , his brother tommen , and cersei laugh at the performance. the tyrells margaery , olenna , mace , and loras , as well as varys , prince oberyn , tywin , tyrion , and sansa stark , make little effort to hide their disgust. loras leaves in anger after watching the crude depiction of his deceased lover renly riding a mount resembling loras , and sansa looks on in obvious grief when the dwarf playing her brother robb is killed after having his wolf's head knocked off. joffrey expresses his delight with the play and prepares to give the champion dwarf a purse but then mockingly suggests that tyrion fight him as well. tyrion cleverly counters this jape by suggesting that joffrey should fight instead and show the same bravery he displayed at the battle of the blackwater , cautioning his nephew to be careful as the champion dwarf is clearly mad with lust and it would be a tragedy for the king to lose his virtue hours before his wedding night. this draws a few stifled chuckles from their guests. enraged and humiliated that his uncle outwitted him in front of all his wedding guests , joffrey petulantly pours wine over tyrion's head and orders him to serve him wine as his cupbearer.
tyrion approaches joffrey , who then purposely drops the goblet and kicks it under the table. sansa hands the goblet to tyrion , and he fills it with wine and hands it back to joffrey. the king demands that tyrion kneel before him but tyrion refuses. margaery interrupts the tense moment and says it is time to cut the pigeon pie. joffrey hands the goblet to margaery , who then places it at the edge of the table near her grandmother olenna. joffrey draws his new sword , cuts the pie , and several white doves fly out.
 cersei cries over her sons murder.
sansa and tyrion attempt to leave the feast , while margaery serves joffrey a piece of pie. joffrey commands tyrion to serve him wine to wash down the pie. tyrion hands the goblet to joffrey and he quickly drinks all of it. joffrey tries to speak , but begins coughing. he grabs his throat , and margaery and olenna exclaim that he is choking and needs help. joffrey collapses face down and begins vomiting and convulsing. jaime and cersei rush in and turn joffrey over on his back. dontos hollard suddenly approaches sansa from behind and says she must come with him quickly , and she does. joffrey points an accusatory finger in tyrion's direction , as he examines the wine goblet though it is not made clear if joffrey is accusing tyrion or merely the wine . joffrey's eyes turn red , blood runs from his nose , he stops convulsing , and dies. cersei sobs with grief and orders the kingsguard to seize tyrion for the poisoning of her son.
 the lion and the rose is the second episode of the fourth season of game of thrones and the thirty second episode of the series overall. it aired on april 13 , 2014 and was written by george r.r. martin , the writer of the a song of ice and fire novels on which the series is based. it was directed by alex graves.
a who's who of honored guests turns out for joffrey and margaery's wedding in king's landing. meanwhile , bronn gives a lesson to an unlikely pupil bran's vision helps map out his journey stannis loses patience with davos and ramsay takes a perverse delight in his new pet.

<Breaker of Chains>

 at king's landing.
with king joffrey dead , cersei mourns the death of her elder son with the heir apparent and , still holding joffrey in her arms , demands that sansa stark be found. her father seals the capital , so no one can leave. prince tommen baratheon , in the great sept of baelor. tywin lannister , also present , immediately begins instructing the young prince on the qualities of a good king. as tywin and tommen leave , jaime enters to see cersei calling for the death of the accused tyrion and his wife , sansa stark. jaime sends the septon and septas away so he can be alone with cersei. he tries to comfort her through his affections. she refuses initially , but jaime is aggressive. cersei insists that the sept during a private viewing of their son's corpse is a highly inappropriate place for sex , and asks jaime to stop , saying it isn't right , it isn't right... and jaime refuses to stop , saying , i don't care , i don't care... . they then have sex next to their dead son's corpse.
a flashback to the wedding reveals sansa escaping with ser dontos hollard from king's landing to a ship off the coast. as sansa is taken aboard , she is greeted by lord petyr littlefinger baelish. he remembers that he still owes dontos his fee , but baelish has two men kill him with crossbows. he explains to sansa that ser dontos was a drunken fool and an unreliable ally who only helped sansa for money and would turn her in for money. to prove his point , he shows that the priceless necklace dontos gave her was actually made a few weeks ago on baelish's orders. sansa is confused and horrified , but baelish promises to keep her safe.
tywin interrupts oberyn martell and his group sex act with ellaria sand and olyvar to discuss tyrion's up coming trial for the murder of joffrey. tywin brings up oberyn's knowledge of poisons and the link between that and joffrey's death as some say the king was poisoned and wonders whether oberyn had helped tyrion. the topic changes to the murder of oberyn's sister elia by tywin's pet , the mountain , during the sack of king's landing. tywin denies ordering her death , but promises to arrange a meeting between oberyn and the mountain so he can have his justice. he also offers oberyn a position on the small council , if oberyn agrees to be the third judge at tyrion's trial. he explains that he is eager to bring dorne back into the fold , wanting to unite the seven kingdoms against more obvious threats the greyjoys are in rebellion , a wildling army is advancing on the wall , and there is a targaryen girl in the east with a powerful army and three dragons , who will eventually threaten westeros. tywin observes that only the dornish successfully resisted aegon targaryen's dragons during his invasion of westeros three centuries ago oberyn dryly notes it must be hard for tywin to admit he needs the dornish for help.
tyrion is in a cell in king's landing. he is visited by his squire , podrick payne , who has smuggled in some food and other items for him. pod has been asked to compile a list of tyrion's witnesses. he names his wife , sansa , but pod informs him that she disappeared moments after joffrey's death. he cannot speak to bronn either because , as a close associate of tyrion , he is also under investigation. pod confirms that there has been no word of shae , which tyrion takes as good news. tyrion then asks to speak with jaime. he also warns pod to be aware of his surroundings and watch out for they , they being the spies of tywin , cersei , varys or more or less anyone else. he opines that many people had a motive for killing joffrey. cersei is the only person he rules out. he urges pod to get out of king's landing as he would be in much danger due to his close relations with tyrion , especially after refusing to testify against tyrion , despite the offer of a knighthood. as pod is about to leave , tyrion calls him back and tells him that there has never lived a more loyal squire. .
i.
 in the riverlands.
meanwhile , arya stark and the hound , crossing the riverlands , are spotted by a farmer and his young daughter while making their way to the vale where arya can be ransomed to her rich aunt , lysa tully. arya quickly fabricates a story that the hound and she are father and daughter , with clegane as a knight in service of house tully. the farmer believes it and allows the pair to stay the night in his home and share a meal. famished , arya and the hound scarf the food down hastily. arya wakes the following morning to hear the farmer's daughter screaming. clegane has assaulted the farmer and taken his silver. confused and horrified , arya demands to know why clegane did that. he simply states , a dead man doesn't need his silver , claiming the farmer is weak and he and his daughter will not survive the upcoming winter.
a.
 at dragonstone.
on dragonstone isle , stannis baratheon learns of joffrey's death and warns ser davos that their time to lay claim to the iron throne dwindles if no army can be secured to wage war again. shortly after , when ser davos begins his reading lessons with princess shireen baratheon , he realizes a possible ally across the narrow sea , the iron bank of braavos. .
a.
 at the wall and the north.
at castle black , samwell tarly fears for the safety of gilly and moves her to a vassal town that frequently services the nights watch brothers in bodily vices. sam is resolute in keeping gilly safe from all harm however and pledges to visit gilly as much as possible , instructing the inn at which he leaves her , that she will not be touched. meanwhile , a village south of the wall is attacked by raiding wildlings under tormund and the cannibalistic thenns. while the village is massacred , a lone boy is sent by the styr as a messenger to castle black to relay an account of the massacre and also a warning that more would follow. the lord commander states that they do not have the manpower to afford venturing away from the wall. they are interrupted when two rangers , edd and grenn , arrive back at castle black after escaping craster's keep. jon reveals he told mance rayder that a thousand men armed castle black and therefore points out that when mance reaches craster's keep , rast and karl will not hesitate in revealing the truth. jon then insists the night's watch send a party to craster's keep to kill their traitor brothers before mance gets to them first.
.
 across the narrow sea.
in slaver's bay , daenerys targaryen marches on the city of meereen as she begins her siege of the slave city. she is faced with a champion's duel where a riding knight of meereen challenges her to choose a champion that will fight for her. grey worm , jorah and barristan all volunteer to stand as her champion she refuses all three as too valuable to her. daario naharis , commander of the second sons , then volunteers to be dany's champion , and she accepts. as naharis quickly dispatches the meereen champion , dany begins her siege of the city by speaking of freedom to the gathered slaves and then catapulting the broken chains of those she has freed across the city walls , demonstrating her previous successes. as the slaves examine the broken chains , the great masters look on , perhaps in fear.
 breaker of chains is the third episode of the fourth season of game of thrones. it is the thirty third episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 20 , 2014. it was written by executive producers david benioff and d.b. weiss and directed by alex graves.
in the frenzied aftermath of the royal wedding , tyrion gets a visit from a loyal subject. meanwhile , tywin offers to work for the common good with a presumed enemy sam takes stock of the personnel at castle black the hound gives another life lesson to arya and daenerys makes a decision outside the walls of meereen.

<Oathkeeper>

 across the narrow sea.
daenerys has 163 of the great masters crucified.
missandei teaches grey worm how to speak the common tongue , where he reveals that all he remembers since his castration is that he was born in the summer isles. missandei also reveals that she can remember that she saw naath burning , as she was tacken as a slave for slaver's bay. dany commands him and several unsullied to infiltrate meereen disguised as slaves and convince the slaves to rise against their masters. they visit a slave pen , where a number of slaves are discussing whether or not to rise against the great masters. one of the young slaves is already trying to convince his fellow men in chains to fight , but the older slaves argue they have no means to oppose their masters , who have squashed every previous slave rebellion. grey worm arrives and tells them that only they can free themselves , then presents them with weapons. the uprising is a resounding success. with the city hers , dany orders the crucifixion of 163 of the so called great masters in retaliation for the 163 slave children crucified on the road to meereen. ser barristan advises her against it , saying that sometimes it is best to answer injustice with mercy. daenerys shows her targaryen blood by firmly declaring that she will answer injustice with justice. the cries of the crucified great masters reach dany's ears atop meereen's tallest pyramid , where the city's emblem , the golden harpy of ghis , has been draped in the banner of house targaryen. now , she has conquered all three of the cities on slaver's bay.
a.
 at the wall.
jon snow and grenn are teaching several recruits , including locke and olly , how to fight against wildlings. alliser thorne admonishes jon and reminds him that he is a steward , not a ranger , trying to provoke jon in an excuse to have him killed. jon leaves the yard and talks with locke , who pretends he is from the stormlands and genuinely wants to protect the realm. janos slynt points out to thorne that jon is well liked and thorne is not , and when maester aemon insists upon an election for a new lord commander , jon is far more likely to succeed mormont. slynt convinces thorne to allow jon to deal with the mutineers , in the hope that they will remove him from the problem. meanwhile , samwell tarly is fretting about gilly's safety in mole's town with the wildlings loose , and it is revealed that sam told jon about bran still being alive and north of the wall. locke brings jon to thorne , who sanctions his mission but tells jon that he must secure volunteers rather than have men ordered along with him. jon gives an impassioned speech , insisting that not only must the mutineers be dealt with for castle black's safety , but lord commander mormont deserves justice. much to thorne and slynt's surprise , grenn , eddison tollett and a group of other men join jon on his mission , including locke who asks to say his vows if that is required before he goes north of the wall.
a.
 at king's landing.
during their sword training , bronn implores jaime to visit his brother tyrion in the dungeon , saying that tyrion named jaime his champion in the eyrie because he knew jaime would ride day and night to fight for him. jaime finally visits tyrion , confessing that cersei asked him to murder him. convincing jaime that he didn't kill joffrey , tyrion notes that not even an irrefutable confession by the real perpetrator would satisfy cersei. she is out for tyrion's blood , and he says that the trial is even worse because at least one judge has always wanted him dead. jaime tells tyrion that cersei offers a knighthood to whomever captures sansa stark. tyrion insists that sansa had nothing to do with the murder , despite having the best motive. later , jaime visits cersei , who is disgusted that , in her view , jaime is taking tyrion's side because of his long held affection for their brother.
meanwhile , lady olenna tells margaery that she is about to leave for highgarden. she mentions the new and prospective marriage between margaery and the new king , tommen. she insists that cersei will turn tommen against margaery by the time they marry if margaery doesn't act fast. fortunately , cersei is well distracted by accusing her innocent brother of the murder of her son. margaery insists that olenna cannot be certain of tyrion's innocence , but olenna states that tyrion certainly is innocent and confesses that she would never have let margaery marry that beast. margaery is shocked but her grandmother firmly ends the conversation. that night , margaery enters tommen's chambers , slipping past the kingsguard and charming tommen. she puts in his mind the idea that one day she will be his and they might as well learn to like each other , and compliments him on his cat and kind demeanour. she promises to visit again and tommen falls asleep smiling.
in the chambers of the kingsguard , jaime tasks brienne with finding sansa. he urges her to find and keep the girl safe from those who would hand her over to cersei and provides her with a horse , supplies , and a freshly forged suit of armor. jaime then gifts her with the sword his father gave him , saying that the valyrian steel is forged from ned stark's sword and that the steel from ned stark's sword should be used to defend ned stark's daughters. he also insists she take podrick payne with her as a squire , both as a reward for the boy's service to tyrion and to keep him safe from those who would seek to use him against his former master. before departing , brienne names the sword oathkeeper and vows to find sansa , for the sake of jaime and lady catelyn.
e.
 en route to the vale.
sansa accuses petyr baelish of having joffrey baratheon murdered. at first baelish evades the accusation , pointing out that he has been away for weeks and that tyrion could be the perpetrator. sansa defends tyrion , with an innate certainty that he is innocent , and mentions that baelish is far too smart to trust a drunk with the scheme. impressed with her instincts , baelish admits that tyrion is in fact innocent , and reveals sansa's own part in joffrey's death ser dontos' necklace was in fact the murder weapon , and someone slipped a stone which was poisonous into joffrey's wine. sansa is bewildered , because the lannisters have done so much for baelish , including granting him the seat of harrenhal. baelish confesses that while his friendship with the lannisters was fruitful , it is best to keep enemies confused and his absence from the wedding means that he will never be suspected. sansa declares that she doesn't entirely believe him he's too clever to poison a king just to cause confusion. baelish is again impressed , and confirms that joffrey was simply too volatile a king like him as an ally was more a hindrance than a benefit. more importantly , though , joffrey's death was something that his new friends wanted very much , and a gift is always helpful to help a new friendship grow strong. .
b.
 beyond the wall.
at craster's keep , the mutinous deserters are still entrenched there , indulging themselves on the food stored there and raping craster's wives. karl drinks wine from the skull of jeor mormont , drunkenly bragging about himself and his skill as a hired killer back in king's landing before ordering rast to feed the beast. at the same time , one of craster's wives enters with craster's last son , insisting the infant must be given as a 'gift to the gods.. at karl's orders , rast leaves the infant on a patch of open ground , then deals with the beast ghost , who the mutineers have caged , and whom rast taunts by withholding food and water from the direwolf. suddenly , a snowstorm whips up and the temperature drops , causing the water rast was taunting ghost with to freeze. recognizing the approach of white walkers , rast flees.
nearby , bran stark and his companions hear the child's cries warging into summer , bran goes to investigate , but summer falls into a trap just outside craster's keep. meera reed , sensing danger , urges them to move on , but bran insists on trying to free ghost and summer before they can , however , they are taken prisoner by the mutineers. some of the deserters amuse themselves by tormenting hodor , while the others are taken to karl , who threatens to kill meera and jojen. jojen is suddenly overcome by a seizure and falls to the floor while meera begs to be let go so she can help him. karl does so when bran reveals his true identity.
i.
 in the lands of always winter.
somewhere in the northernmost reaches of the world , a lone white walker rides its undead horse towards a shattered mountain , cradling craster's last son in its arm. when it reaches the mountain , the white walker places the baby upon an altar of ice at the center of a ring of large icicles. on the other side , a line of dark garbed white walkers watch the proceedings. after a moment , one of them strides forth and carefully picks up the wailing child , who swiftly calms. the white walker presses the nail of its index finger into the baby's cheek. the sound of cracking ice can be heard as the child's eyes turn a depthless , icy blue.
 oathkeeper is the fourth episode of the fourth season of game of thrones. it is the thirty fourth episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 27 , 2014. it was written by producer bryan cogman and directed by michelle maclaren.
dany balances justice and mercy. jaime tasks brienne with his honor. jon secures volunteers while bran , jojen , meera and hodor stumble on shelter.

<First of His Name>

 across the narrow sea.
in her new headquarters atop the great pyramid , daenerys learns that joffrey is dead and tommen has been crwoned. she is irritated to learn that daario naharis has captured meereen's navy without her explicit orders to do so , but mulls over the possibility of setting sail for westeros and taking king's landing with her 8 , 000 unsullied and 2 , 000 second sons. barristan selmy is optimistic about their chances , believing that old westerosi families will flock to their cause once daenerys crosses the narrow sea , swelling their numbers. jorah mormont is less enthusiastic while 10 , 000 troops should be enough to take king's landing from its exhausted defenders , there's still the rest of the continent to worry about. her advisors then reveal more troubling news the wise masters have bounced back and re enslaved every freed man in yunkai , and although astapor remains free , the council daenerys installed has been deposed by a butcher named cleon. daenerys dismisses everyone but jorah and muses that her plans are in shambles. he reminds her that she is the last targaryen and the mother of dragons , but dany says she needs to be more than that. she laments that if she cannot keep order in three cities , she has no hope of controlling seven kingdoms. she is therefore resolved to remain in meereen and do what queens do rule.
a.
 at king's landing.
tommen is crowned king of the seven kingdoms , while cersei makes what appears to be a peaceful gesture towards margaery , who remains wary. cersei talks to prince oberyn and asks him a favor. she hasn't seen her daughter , myrcella , in over a year. cersei asks oberyn to take her a gift , a ship , since she missed her last nameday.
 tywin reveals to cersei their problem with the iron bank of braavos they owe 'a tremendous sum , ' and the gold mines of the westerlands actually ran dry three years ago. therefore , even though tywin admits the lannisters can trust nobody except themselves , they need the tyrells' wealth and resources on their side. cersei suggests coming to some arrangement with one of their representatives , but tywin dismisses the idea , since the bank is a monolithic structure that cannot be avoided , lied to or swayed.
i.
 in the riverlands.
while on the road , podrick proves to be a hindrance to brienne. he has problems with his horse and accidentally sets fire to a rabbit they were cooking. brienne tries to get rid of podrick by releasing him from the vow he swore as her squire , but to no avail. they are bound for castle black , where brienne believes sansa may have taken refuge with her half brother , jon snow. brienne questions podrick about his duties as squire to tyrion. he tells her his job was mostly pouring wine , alongside other menial tasks. brienne then asks if podrick did anything related to combat. podrick reveals how he killed ser mandon moore of the kingsguard by shoving a spear through his head when he tried to kill tyrion during the battle of the blackwater. brienne then grants podrick a bit of respect and allows him to help her remove her armor.
i.
 in the vale of arryn.
lord petyr baelish and sansa stark arrive safely at the bloody gate , though petyr has sansa cover her hair , as auburn is widely known as a tully trait , and introduces her as his niece , alayne. upon arriving at the eyrie itself , sansa tries to slip into her alias , but lysa arryn tells her not to bother around her own flesh and blood. lysa laments sansa's treatment in king's landing , ignoring her attempts to defend tyrion's character. robin arryn is delighted to see petyr and to show sansa the moon door. lysa , apparently having finally given robin some independence , reminds him never to reveal sansa's identity and tells him to show her to her chambers. the instant they leave , lysa , for unclear reasons , insists on marrying petyr immediately , claiming that they already had a wedding night many years ago. she references poisoning her former husband's wine and framing the lannisters by writing to her sister catelyn , using these actions as proof of her love for petyr. petyr is unable to deter her , particularly when lysa reveals that a septon and witnesses have been waiting outside the main door. a delighted lysa declares that she will scream so loudly that night that they will be able to hear her across the narrow sea. later that night , an exasperated sansa attempts to sleep as lysa tries to fulfil that promise.
later on , lysa has a meal with sansa , giving her some lemon cakes. sansa , relieved to be safe at last , indulges herself , though she becomes a little self conscious when lysa begins telling stories of catelyn's overeating in her youth. lysa encourages sansa to keep eating , as she was only telling a story , and anyway , petyr had three crates of lemons brought from the crownlands just for sansa's cakes. lysa suddenly degenerates from a kindly aunt into a psychotic newlywed half mad with jealousy and demands to know why petyr cares so much about sansa , and if he has slept with her as he has his whores. she also rants about catelyn's love for sansa's uncle brandon and how he nearly killed petyr. horrified , sansa weeps and insists that she is still a virgin and that petyr thinks she's just a stupid girl who doesn't know anything , and who cannot lie at all so always tells the truth. lysa immediately calms down and comforts sansa , assuring her that she believes her , and that since neither tyrion nor petyr had slept with her , sansa can proceed to marry robin. sansa seems unsure of what to make of this information , but one thing is clear king's landing has made her a consummate actress.
on the road to the eyrie , sandor clegane and arya stark continue to spar verbally and physically , particularly when clegane disparages arya's water dancing and insults syrio forel for being overcome by a glorified thug like meryn trant.
b.
 beyond the wall.
at craster's keep , locke scouts the keep for the party of the night's watch sent to eliminate the traitors holed up there in his reconnaissance , locke finds the hut where bran stark , jojen , meera and hodor are being held captive. reporting back to jon snow and the others , locke tells them that only 11 traitors are present and most of them are drunk and won't prove much of a threat. he also lies about the hut where the prisoners are being kept , claiming there are hounds kept inside and that they should keep away from it to prevent the dogs alerting their enemy. jon agrees and tells the party they attack at nightfall.
that night , karl enters the prisoners' hut and attempts to rape meera , but jojen distracts karl when he reveals his possession of greensight and claims to have seen karl dead before the night is out. at that moment , rast rushes in to warn karl the keep is under attack jon's party rushes through the defenses and starts killing their traitorous former brethren. in the confusion , locke slips into the tent and attempts to abduct bran , but bran wargs into hodor and uses him to kill locke. bran spots jon in the fighting , but jojen prevents him from going to his older brother , reminding bran that they must continue onward to reach the three eyed raven and that jon would stop them. bran reluctantly leaves despite being so close to jon.
the night's watch swiftly overcome their enemy and jon confronts karl in single combat. karl's use of dirty tactics learned in his criminal past give him the upper hand. before he can finish jon , one of craster's wives , sissy , stabs him from behind. when karl rounds on her , jon gets back to his feet and drives longclaw through the back of karl's skull , killing him.
in the aftermath of the battle , four brothers of the night's watch , including locke , are found to have died , while all the traitors but one are accounted for. the sole survivor , rast , runs in terror through the forest until he reaches the cage where ghost was held. he notices someone has opened the cage but before he can do more than absorb this fact , the direwolf lunges out of nowhere and kills him. ghost then finds his way back to jon , who is overjoyed to see his companion again. speaking to craster's wives , jon warns them that mance rayder's army and worse besides will soon reach their location and offers to take them to safety south of the wall , but the women refuse , preferring to set out on their own. before departing back for castle black , jon has craster's keep burned to the ground , along with the bodies of all those who died there.
 first of his name is the fifth episode of the fourth season of game of thrones. 1 it is the thirty fifth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 4 , 2014. it was written by producers david benioff and d.b. weiss and directed by michelle maclaren.
cersei and tywin plot the crown s next move. dany discusses future plans. jon embarks on a new mission.

<The Laws of Gods and Men>

 at the dreadfort.
yara greyjoy prepares her troops for their assault on the dreadfort to rescue her brother , theon. she reads the letter sent by ramsay snow , threatening to flay all ironborn who do not leave the north. while ramsay has rather violent sex with myranda , yara and her troops land and scale the walls of the castle. they quietly take out the guards as they search for theon. interrogating a guard , yara learns of theon's location which is the dog kennels , and yara then kills the guard , despite promising not to. there , the ironborn and yara see theon sitting in a cage. yara opens the cage , but theon refuses to go with her , believing it is another cruel trick played by ramsay. ramsay and several bolton troops enter and a fight ensues , with several bolton and greyjoy soldiers killed. theon tells yara his name has always been reek , bites her , and cowers in his cage. ramsay releases the hounds and yara is forced to retreat to her ship. when one of the ironmen asks about theon , yara says theon is dead.
ramsay allows reek to take a bath , as a reward for his loyalty. reek fears the bath is another trick but ramsay assures him it is not. while reek bathes , ramsay now plans to assault moat cailin and needs reek to pretend to be someone he isn't theon greyjoy.
a.
 at king's landing.
at a meeting of the small council , tywin informs the councilors that tyrion's trial will begin that afternoon. lord varys informs tywin that the hound has been spotted in the riverlands , and tywin orders a bounty on his head. varys also informs the council of daenerys's conquest of meereen , and tywin decides to take measures to prevent her from launching an invasion. in the dungeon , jaime has tyrion shackled and brought into the throne room to begin his trial. king tommen recuses himself from the trial , appointing his grandfather tywin , prince oberyn martell , and lord mace tyrell as judges. several witnesses are called for the prosecution , including ser meryn trant , grand maester pycelle , queen regent cersei , and varys , all of whom give testimony backing the accusations against tyrion.
 varys testifies at tyrion's trial.
at recess , jaime asks tywin to spare tyrion , offering to break his oath to the kingsguard and return to casterly rock , to be his heir. tywin accepts , telling jaime that tyrion will be allowed to join the night's watch after being found guilty of joffrey's murder , provided he pleads for mercy. before the recess ends , jaime speaks with tyrion and urges him to do so. tyrion is deeply distrustful of the offer , remarking that eddard stark was promised the same thing and yet still lost his head , but jaime pleads with his brother to trust him , insisting that their father will keep his word.
returning to the trial , tywin orders the next witness to testify shae. she testifies that tyrion and sansa planned joffrey's murder together , claiming that sansa wanted vengeance for the murder of her father , mother , and brother. she tells the judges of tyrion's sexual desires , embarrassing him in front of the crowd. before she can continue , tyrion , enraged beyond sense , angrily demands that he be allowed to confess his crimes. he angrily roars about how he saved king's landing from stannis baratheon's forces and says he should've allowed stannis to kill everyone in king's landing , much to the horror and disgust of the people in the court. tyrion then claims to be guilty. tywin assumes that he is guilty for murdering king joffrey baratheon. tyrion denies this , saying he is guilty of a far more monstrous crime. i am guilty of being a dwarf tywin scoffs at tyrion's claims and says he is not on trial for being a dwarf. tyrion angrily says he has been on trial for his entire life as a dwarf. tywin asks if he has nothing to say in his defense. tyrion then says he has nothing to say in his defense but only this. he then reveals his true feelings about joffrey , denying guilt in the king's murder but saying he wished to have killed joffrey himself. tyrion then turns his full fury towards cersei and says that watching her vicious bastard of a son die gave him more relief than a thousand lying whores. he then turns around to the court and roars that he wishes to have become the monster they thought he was and would have gladly give his life to watch everyone die from drinking poison. this enrages everyone in the court and tywin orders ser meryn to escort tyrion back to the dungeons. before he can be escorted out , tyrion bellows that he will not lose his life for a crime he did not commit and , knowing that he will get no justice from the court , demands a trial by combat. .
i.
 in braavos.
stannis baratheon and ser davos visit the iron bank of braavos in hopes of securing funds to aid stannis' war effort. at first tycho nestoris , a representative from the bank , rejects their request , but davos entreats him and points out that funding stannis is the best way they could possibly get the gold they loaned to tywin lannister back. the bank agrees to lend them gold , and davos uses it to once again recruit his old pirate friend salladhor saan to stannis' cause.
i.
 in meereen.
drogon toasting goats on one sunny day outside of meereen , a goat herder and his son are peacefully tending the goats on a hill while the son throws rocks to pass the time. suddenly , drogon now the size of a horse appears and burns the field and kills a flock of goats while taking one with him. the goat herder travels to meereen to visit the queen and lays the charred remains of his flock before daenerys , hoping to not anger the queen and believes it to be punishment. daenerys apologizes about drogon's actions and promises to pay back three times the worth of his flock.
after he departs , hizdahr zo loraq presents his petition the right to bury his father's remains in the temple of the graces , as he was one of the meereenese great masters crucified on daenerys's orders. she counters that he was one of the masters that crucified the 163 children. loraq reveals that his father actually spoke out against the crucifixion of the slave children but was overruled , but later was killed due to daenerys's judgment anyway. somewhat mollified , daenerys allows him to bury his father. as he leaves , daenerys asks how many more supplicants are waiting missandei answers that there are over 200 more.
 the laws of gods and men is the sixth episode of the fourth season of game of thrones. 1 it is the thirty sixth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 11 , 2014. it was written by co producer bryan cogman and directed by alik sakharov.
stannis and davos set sail with a new strategy. dany meets with supplicants. tyrion faces down his father in the throne room.

<Mockingbird>

 at king's landing.
tyrion and bronn.
in his cell , tyrion and jaime discuss tyrion's fate and the irony of lord tywin striking down both his heirs if jaime were to die being tyrion's champion jaime declines to be tyrion's champion as he cannot fight well enough with his left hand. tyrion then requests jaime to bring him bronn , hoping the sellsword will stand for him just as he did at the eyrie.
bronn visits tyrion in the clothes of a lord , having been betrothed to lollys stokeworth , by cersei's doing. he refuses to fight the mountain whom cersei has chosen for her champion , both for lack of a reward and believing clegane is too dangerous for him to face , and bids farewell to tyrion , who while heartbroken by bronn's decision , understands.
 oberyn visits tyrion in his cell.
later , tyrion is approached by oberyn martell , who tells tyrion of his disappointment in their first encounter as children , oberyn and his sister elia were told stories of the lannister monster and his extreme deformities. during a childhood visit to casterly rock , cersei showed tyrion , with great ceremony , to oberyn and elia. oberyn tells tyrion that he saw no monster , just a baby. cersei told oberyn and his sister that tyrion killed her mother , and then cruelly assaulted tyrion until jaime stopped her. oberyn says that he and elia were quite disturbed at cersei's already strong hatred toward tyrion , who is disturbed by cersei's relentless hatred as his eyes tear up. oberyn tells tyrion that he seeks justice for the death of his sister , and tyrion replies , you are in the wrong place. oberyn counters that he is in the perfect place all those he means to bring to justice for his sister's murder are close at hand. intending to start his revenge with gregor clegane , oberyn offers his service as tyrion's champion in the coming trial by combat.
.
gregor clegane , known by most as 'the mountain , ' is mercilessly killing prisoners with a greatsword. cersei approaches him and thanks him for his haste in returning to king's landing as her champion for the trial by combat. gregor asks who he will be fighting , cersei asks if it matters , and he shakes his head.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
daario visits daenerys in her private chambers. daenerys is surprised by daario in her private chambers. she feigns outrage at the intrusion , but agrees to hear his complaints. daario laments that he is only good at two things , killing men and sleeping with women , and that he has no opportunities to pursue either strength. dany counters that the second sons are currently acting as meereen's police force and that there are many women in the city who would throw themselves at him daario dismisses the second sons' role as unchallenging and says the only woman he wants isn't interested. he begs daenerys to send him and the second sons to make real war. dany focuses on daario's other proclaimed talent and orders him to remove his clothes.
the following morning , daario bumps into ser jorah. he also says that it's a good time to talk to the queen , as she is in a very good mood , implying that he and daenerys had just been intimate. jorah is not amused , but daenerys dismisses concerns about her intimate life. daenerys tells jorah that she sent daario to take the second sons to yunkai to regain control over the city and kill the masters that have resurfaced. jorah relates to the mercy shown by eddard stark for his dealings in slavery and convinces daenerys to bring the masters to justice without execution. daenerys considers for a moment and then tells jorah to assign hizdahr zo loraq as her ambassador to offer the masters a choice they can live free in the new world she wants to create , or they can die clinging to their old one. the second sons will be stationed in yunkai to enforce whichever choice the masters make. she also says to let daario know that it was jorah who changed her mind.
a.
 at dragonstone.
selyse speaks with melisandre. queen selyse speaks to melisandre , who is enjoying a bath. she quips that the lord of light told her to enjoy it as it was the last time she would have a good bath , but the joke goes over selyse's head. to cement selyse's position as melisandre's most devoted follower , the red priestess tells her about using potions and illusions in serving the lord of light and that a bit of pageantry and deception in helping converts see the truth will be forgiven later on. selyse asks her if she used the potions when she slept with stannis , to which she replies that she did not. selyse then remarks on her desire to leave their daughter shireen behind when they go to the north but melisandre is as dismissive about shireen's heresy as she always is , and assures selyse that shireen will be needed where they are going.
a.
 at the wall.
jon and his fellow brothers return from craster's keep. at first sight of his direwolf , ghost , alliser thorne sends his beast away , outside castle black.
afterwards , jon tries to convince the night's watch to barricade the wall against the imminent wildling invasion by blocking off castle black's entry tunnel with ice and rock. he is denied after being reminded of his place in the watch , when the first builder reluctantly agrees with thorne's assessment of their chances of defending the tunnel. jon and sam are sent to serve as sentries on top of the wall until mance arrives.
i.
 in the riverlands.
arya and sandor encounter a dying man in a ransacked village. sandor gives the man a gift of mercy by stabbing him in the heart. sandor is ambushed by biter , and is bitten on the neck. he snaps biter's neck and drops him dead in the dirt. rorge encounters them and after a short interrogation is killed by arya with a quick thrust by needle to his heart. afterward , sandor clumsily addresses his wounds from biter. arya suggests burning to cauterize the wound , but is rebuffed by sandor's fear of fire. sandor confirms the story of his facial scars from burns inflicted by gregor's wrath and how his father covered up the truth , making him feel alone. arya offers to clean and stitch him up , and sandor allows her to.
.
meanwhile , brienne and podrick stop at an inn where they are served kidney pie made by none other than hot pie , who proceeds to tell them at length the process in finding the right ingredients. he then asks of brienne's business , to which she replies that she is in lady stark's service to find and protect sansa stark. hot pie leaves after addressing the starks as traitors. as brienne and podrick prepare to leave the inn , podrick reminds brienne that telling people of their quest could be dangerous , but brienne's honesty is swiftly rewarded when hot pie approaches and gives them a loaf of bread shaped like a wolf. he tells them that he knows nothing of sansa , but has seen her sister arya alive , along with the hound. brienne is surprised because arya has been presumed dead since she disappeared when her father ned was executed. they deduce that arya's captors are probably going to try to ransom arya somewhere. having memorized the complex family trees of the great houses , podrick surmises that arya's aunt lysa arryn is the hound's only remaining chance of a reward for her. therefore , brienne and podrick decide to head for the eyrie.
a.
 at the eyrie.
while wandering the eyrie's snow covered courtyards , sansa builds a snow replica of winterfell. robin chances upon her and seems impressed with her efforts. the cousins get along until robin asks where the moon door is. sansa tells him winterfell doesn't need a moon door. sansa agrees to add one , but in the process , robin accidentally knocks over a tower. robin insists she replicate the tower. this irritates sansa and robin throws a tantrum in response. unable to control her anger , sansa slaps robin. sansa immediately softens and tries to apologize , but before she can robin threatens to tell his mother and runs away. petyr baelish witnesses the action and assures sansa that he will deal with lysa , whom he says should discipline her child more often , anyway. petyr muses on how he should have been sansa's father , but then tells sansa that she is more beautiful than her mother catelyn and kisses sansa who is so shocked that she doesn't resist. unknown to the pair , the kiss is seen by lysa.
 lysa is pushed out the moon door.
later , sansa is summoned by lysa , who proceeds to explain the gory details about moon door executions. lysa then grabs sansa and threatens to throw her out for kissing petyr. she is stopped when petyr arrives and swears by everything he can think of that he will send sansa away. lysa releases sansa and embraces petyr , who assures lysa that he only ever loved one woman her sister. lysa has only an instant to contemplate this betrayal , as petyr shoves her out of the moon door and looks down as she plummets to her death hundreds of feet below.
 mockingbird is the seventh episode of the fourth season of game of thrones 1 . it is the thirty seventh episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 18 , 2014. it was written by producers david benioff and d.b. weiss and directed by alik sakharov.
tyrion enlists an unlikely ally. daario entreats dany to allow him to do what he does best. jon s warnings about the wall s vulnerability fall on deaf ears. brienne follows a new lead on the road with pod.

<The Mountain and the Viper>

 in the north.
ramsay snow sends reek , forced to reassume his former identity of theon greyjoy , to treat with the ironborn garrison holding the northern fortress of moat cailin , barring the armies of house bolton from returning to the north. theon rides into the fortress to find corpses lying everywhere from constant attacks , and disease is running rampant the ironborn remaining are sick , under equipped and outnumbered. the garrison commander , ralf kenning , rebuffs the offer made by ramsay of safe passage in exchange for surrender , and clearly thinks theon to be an imposter , but he is cut down by one of his men , who accepts it on behalf of the soldiers. the ironborn surrender to ramsay , but he has them killed and flayed regardless.
in the aftermath , ramsay meets with his father and presents him with the greyjoy banner that was flying over the fortress. in recognition , roose presents ramsay with a decree of legitimization , making him officially a member of house bolton. delighted at the knowledge he will succeed his father as warden of the north , ramsay and reek accompany roose's army as it approaches its final destination the ruins of winterfell.
in mole's town , a whore is arguing with gilly about her baby who woke her up during the night. meanwhile , wildlings , including tormund , styr and ygritte , attack the town , killing everyone in their path. ygritte discovers gilly hiding with her baby , but urges them to keep quiet , sparing their lives.
a.
 at the wall.
news from m ole's town has arrived at castle black , where sam worries about gilly , blaming himself for bringing her to the town instead of keeping her with him at castle black. grenn is angry at them cowering in the castle instead of helping their brothers in neighboring towns. jon snow says they can't go out to fight against the wildlings , as that is exactly what they want. pypar and edd try to comfort sam by saying she might be alive and hiding , as she has survived worse situations , such as living with craster , making a long march to the wall , and even surviving a white walker. this gives sam hope that gilly and her baby may have survived. jon notes they have a bigger problem if mole's town has been destroyed , castle black is next , and the few black brothers who remain are outnumbered a thousand to one by mance rayder's army. edd notes that if the wildlings don't kill them all , there is even worse behind them that will finish the job , and asks whichever last man of the group is still alive at the end to burn the others , as he doesn't want to come back after he is dead.
a.
 across the narrow sea.
as grey worm is swimming with some other unsullied outside meereen , he notices missandei and a number of other women bathing naked downstream. she spots him looking at her and returns his gaze , standing up slowly for him to see her before finally covering herself. later daenerys asks whether missandei thinks he was spying on her. she says no , and daenerys mentions that dothraki have no taboos against nudity or public love making. of course , missandei is not dothraki , but she says it doesn't matter , as grey worm isn't interested in her none of the unsullied desire women. missandei says he was interested though , surprisingly to both of them. daenerys inquires whether , when a slave is castrated , the masters take all of it both the pillar and the stones. missandei says she doesn't know , to which daenerys asks if she's ever wondered. thoughtful , missandei confirms that she has.
in dany's audience chamber , grey worm comes to apologize to missandei , but she tells him he doesn't need to. he hopes he didn't frighten her , and she says he did not. addressing her in the common tongue , he tells her the lessons she gives are precious to him. gently correcting his vocabulary , she notes that she doesn't remember teaching him the word precious. grey worm tells her that jorah taught it to him. she asks whether he remembers his birth name , and grey worm says he remembers nothing. she asks if he remembers when they cut him , and he shakes his head no. she tells him she's sorry they did that to him , and when grey worm asks her why , she says it's a terrible thing to do to a boy. grey worm counters that , had the masters not cut him , he never would have been unsullied , he never would have been freed , chosen to lead them , and met her. missandei is visibly moved by this. grey worm apologizes once again , and she stops him while he turns to leave , telling him she is glad he saw her. he tells her he's glad as well.
as ser barristan selmy watches the unsullied taking the bodies of the crucified masters down outside meereen , a small boy approaches him , giving him a scroll bearing the seal of the hand. he reads its contents slowly in consternation. he confronts ser jorah the document is a royal pardon signed by king robert baratheon. barristan surmises jorah spied on daenerys in exchange for the pardon. jorah begs to be allowed to speak with her privately , but barristan tells him that he will never be alone with her again. in an audience before her , a seething daenerys demands an explanation , and jorah says it is a ploy by tywin lannister to divide them. dany counters that the pardon was signed the year they met. asking him whether he claims the pardon was forged , jorah admits that it was not. he soon confesses to giving varys information on daenerys' activities in essos. daenerys angrily says that his telling them of her pregnancy by khal drogo led to her near poisoning at the hands of a wine merchant. jorah then protests that his actions stopped her from being poisoned , but daenerys retorts this was only because he knew it might be coming. jorah begs for her forgiveness , but daenerys rebuffs him , saying he betrayed her , selling her secrets to the man she holds responsible for the death of her family. she spares his life , however , and gives him a day to leave meereen. she warns that if he is seen in the city after that , his head will be thrown into slaver's bay. jorah is last seen riding from meereen on a horse.
i.
 in the vale.
petyr baelish is testifying before a tribunal consisting of lord yohn royce , lady anya waynwood , and ser vance corbray. the lords are suspicious of lysa arryn's death , which occured so soon after her marriage. baelish has been attempting to spin the death as a suicide , but the lords don't believe him , given lysa's devotion to her son. they rebuff littlefinger's explanations in favor of speaking with the only other witness his niece , alayne. after confirming that baelish can stay for her testimony , sansa reveals her true identity and relates the tale of her captivity and escape from king's landing. she continues , truthfully telling of lysa's mental instability , jealousy and death , changing only a few details saying littlefinger only kissed her on the cheek and lysa threw herself through the moon door . sansa breaks down in tears and the lords are convinced , but while none of them are looking , she gives littlefinger a stone faced look.
later , baelish visits sansa and asks why she lied on his behalf. sansa explains that she has no idea what royce , corbray , and waynwood would want from her if he were eliminated , but that she does know what it is he wants. littlefinger seems impressed that she made such a calculating decision , but attempts to cast doubt on her certainty , by asking if she really knows what he wants. later on , as littlefinger and robin prepare to depart on a tour of the vale , a raven haired sansa accompanies them , in a feathered black dress with a plunging neckline.
at some point , before or after this event , sandor clegane and arya stark arrive at the bloody gate of the eyrie and are informed of lysa's death by ser donnel waynwood. the hound stares in shock , while arya begins laughing due to the irony.
a.
 at king's landing.
in the last hours before his trial by combat , tyrion and jaime share a final drink in tyrion's cell and reminisce about orson lannister , their simple minded cousin who spent his days smashing beetles with a rock. tyrion tells jaime of how he used to observe orson day after day in an attempt to understand his motives , but in the end he was never able to come to reach any understanding. tyrion asks jaime if he thinks oberyn stands a chance , but jaime is not optimistic. as a bell rings out to announce daybreak in the city , jaime takes his leave , wishing his brother luck.
lannister guardsmen escort tyrion to the arena , where a large crowd has assembled. he grows apprehensive to find a helm less oberyn drinking , and wearing very light armor in comparison to his opponent , ser gregor clegane , clad from head to foot in heavy armor and wielding a greatsword. oberyn dismisses tyrion's concerns , noting that he always drinks before a fight and favors speed over protection. as gregor and his squire make their way to the arena , ellaria becomes concerned , noting that the mountain is the biggest man she's ever seen , but oberyn remains confident that he will emerge triumphant. grand maester pycelle steps into the arena and begins making a long winded speech asking the gods to favor the innocent before tywin lannister cuts him short and begins the trial by combat.
oberyn , after impressing the crowd with a display of acrobatic spear maneuvers , goes on the attack , stabbing out at gregor and constantly moving out of the knight's reach , forcing gregor to tire himself out chasing his opponent. as he evades gregor , oberyn repeatedly taunts gregor by constantly bringing up his part in the murder of his sister , elia martell , and her children , and demanding a confession , only enraging clegane further. as the fight progresses , oberyn manages to seriously injure gregor , stabbing him first in the chest , severing his hamstring and then burying his spear in gregor's stomach , pinning him to the floor. as jaime and tyrion exchange a relieved grin across the arena , a furious oberyn circles the prone gregor , demanding that before he dies , gregor confess to murdering elia and her children , raping elia , and that it was tywin who gave the order.
however , oberyn stands too close to his seemingly defeated opponent , and gregor manages to trip and seize him. berserk with fury , gregor grabs oberyn by the throat and lifts him off the ground , smashing out most of his teeth with a single devastating punch. climbing on top of oberyn , gregor finally admits for all to hear that he raped and killed elia as he gouges out oberyn's eyes with his thumbs before crushing the viper's skull between his hands , which he proclaims having done the same to his sister. as ellaria screams in horror , a stunned silence sweeps over the crowd. the short joyful moments for tyrion and jaime are shattered , as tywin stands and proclaims the will of the gods is clear tyrion is guilty and sentenced to death. tyrion cannot even reply , shockingly staring in catatonic astonishment at oberyn's skull crushed corpse , as does jaime the only different reaction is from cersei , who stares at oberyn's slaughtered body , listening to tyrion's death sentence while smirking in vindication.
 the mountain and the viper is the eighth episode of the fourth season of game of thrones 1 . it is the thirty eighth episode of the series overall. it premiered on june 1 , 2014. it was written by producers david benioff and d.b. weiss and directed by alex graves.
unexpected visitors arrive in mole's town. littlefinger's motives are questioned. ramsay tries to prove himself to his father. tyrion's fate is decided.

<The Watchers on the Wall>

 at the wall.
 jon and sam are standing watch atop the wall , staring out into the darkness of the north and awaiting the imminent wildling invasion. sam attempts to interrogate jon about what it was like to be with a woman , stating that as their deaths are likely imminent , it may be his last chance to find out. sam brings up that the vows of the night's watch only explicitly forbid members from taking wives or producing children , and that other activities are open to interpretation. jon replies glumly that alliser thorne most likely does not care about their interpretations. when further pressed by sam to describe lying down with ygritte , jon attempts to explain but is unable to properly express it , proclaiming exasperatedly that he's not a bleeding poet.
jon offers to take the watch up alone so sam can go below , and as sam steps into the elevator and begins to descend the wall , an owl lands on top of the wall and begins hooting loudly. the owl is revealed to be controlled by a thenn warg who is a member of the garrison of wildlings under command of tormund and styr , who have set up camp just outside of the southern entrance to castle black. tormund boasts about a bear he supposedly had sex with , prompting ygritte to cut him short and cast her doubts on the validity of his claim. she tells him that she only cares about getting as many arrows through the hearts of crows as possible. she angrily talks about how the people south of the wall shut the the wildlings out by building it and hunting the wildlings as enemies she says that now the wildlings are the hunters and the southerners their prey. styr mockingly replies that ygritte has more words about killing than she has arrows. she defends herself by saying she killed just as many people at mole's town as he , but styr replies that none of them was her former lover. he further mocks her by saying that when she sees him , she'll likely just serve him a slice of ginger minge , causing her to jump to her feet in anger. ygritte stares styr down , claiming that she wants to kill jon snow herself , then looks around the camp and warns the others that she has an arrow ready for anyone else who attempts to kill him. just outside the camp , a shaded person cradling something passes by the wildlings unnoticed.
 maester aemon finds sam in the castle black library. meanwhile , sam is caught reading a book about wildlings by maester aemon. aemon correctly guesses that sam is reading the book because he wants to know what kind of fate might have befallen gilly if she fell into wildling hands during the sack of mole's town. he also surmises that sam has shown such a keen interest in her fate because he is in love with her , despite sam's protests to the contrary. aemon muses about the girl he once loved , stating that he can still picture her as clear as day and that she is more real than sam is. after being dismissed by aemon , sam leaves the maester's chambers only to hear gilly at the gate begging to be allowed inside , revealing her survival of the mole's town massacre and her identity as the cloaked figure approaching castle black. pypar attempts to deny her passage into the castle , saying he is not allowed to open the gate under any circumstances. however , sam roars at pyp to allow her in , causing pyp to relent and let her in. sam promises gilly wherever she goes next he will go too , but their reunion is cut short by two blows from the horn , indicating that mance's wildling army has finally begun their assault. sam rushes to get gilly safely inside the castle while other brothers of the night's watch prepare for the imminent attack by wildlings.
 jon looking off the top of the wall.
on top of the wall , jon hears the horn blowing and looks north , witnessing a tremendous conflagration to the north , just as mance had promised. south of the wall , the thenn warg's owl also spots the fire and informs styr and tormund that the time has come to attack castle black. jon approaches ser alliser thorne , who finally relents and admits that they should have heeded jon's advice and blocked the gates. he grimly muses that leadership often means being second guessed by every clever little twat with a mouth and when a man in charge second guesses himself , all is doomed. steeling himself for the impending siege , thorne begins barking orders to the archers , preparing them to fire upon the attackers massing below.
 sam and gilly share a kiss. sam brings gilly and her baby to a storage room where she can hide. gilly wants sam to stay with her as he promised , but he cannot as he swore to defend the wall as a brother of the night's watch. before he leaves her , gilly begs sam to promise her that he won't die and the two finally share a kiss. as sam and pypar are preparing arrows at the southern gate , pypar laments that he has never seen a real battle before or ever even held an edged blade. pypar asks how sam is not afraid , but sam replies that he is , as there are thousands of wildlings about to overrun them. pypar asks how he managed to kill a white walker while being afraid , and sam says that at that moment , he just had to do something or gilly would have been killed and her baby would have been taken. sam further explains that at that moment , he wasn't himself he was nothing , and when you are nothing there is nothing to be afraid of. however , he explains the reason he is afraid now is because i'm not nothing anymore.
.
meanwhile , ygritte spies on the castle to scout numbers of defenders. she tells the other wildlings that most of the guards are at the top of the wall and that few are left in the castle. the group immediately take off towards castle black's southern gate , while ygritte seems to have second thoughts. north of the wall , the massive wildling army emerges from the woods , their numbers including giants riding atop mammoths. alliser orders the archers on the wall to nock their arrows , but they draw instead while grenn accidentally drops a barrel down the wall. alliser angrily drills his men on properly following orders when another horn blows from down below at castle black , signalling the unanticipated appearance of tormund's band of wildlings at the castle's southern entrance. realizing the dire need for experienced men to defend the keep from the surprise attack , alliser orders janos slynt to assume command of the wall's defenses and heads below to join the melee.
below , tormund and styr's forces charge the gate while ygritte , acting as a sniper , manages to pick off several men defending the gate with her bow. pypar is firing a crossbow as sam assists by reloading another crossbow , but pypar's aim is poor due to inexperience and nerves and he repeatedly misses his shots. the band of wildlings manage to reach castle black's walls and begin scaling them using grappling hooks and ropes , forcing sam and pyp to retreat.
alliser thorne arrives with reinforcements from the top of the wall via the wooden lift system , which is being operated by olly. alliser gives an impassioned speech , promising that the ancient order of the night's watch and castle black will survive this battle. his speech rallies the black brothers and alliser personally leads the charge against the wildlings who have breached castle black's defenses , causing an intense battle to erupt in the courtyard.
 on the northern side of the wall , a wildling strike force led by two giants one of which is riding a mammoth charge towards castle black's outer gate. on top of the wall , janos slynt , having no true leadership experience , breaks down at the sight of the massive wildling army and begins fumbling his orders. grenn steps in by falsely claiming that alliser needs janos back down below. janos believes the lie and leaves , allowing jon to take command of the wall's defenses. the black brothers continue to rain down arrows on the advancing wildlings , even killing ones that are attempting to scale the wall. one giant , armed with a massive bow , manages to fire a huge arrow at one of the bunkers atop the wall , completely obliterating it and killing the black brother manning it the force of the giant's arrow carries the black brother off the wall on to the other side where he is shoved into ground with a tremendous amount of force.
 hobb takes up his butcher's knife to defend the dining hall.
down in castle black , the battle rages on between the wildlings and the night's watch. styr and ygritte continue to slay numerous black brothers. at one point , a group of wildlings breach castle black's dining hall. one wildling is killed when a black brother throws boiling stew in his face and beats him to death with the pot. hobb , castle black's cook , calmly enters the dining hall and kills a wildling with his massive butcher's knife. meanwhile , janos slynt cowardly retreats to a storage room where he discovers gilly and her baby.
 samwell tarly comforts pypar as he dies.
pyp manages to kill a wildling with his crossbow , but is then shot through the neck by ygritte. sam comforts pyp and stays with him until he dies. sam is forced to leave pyp's body and as he heads to castle black's lift system , but he is spotted by the thenn warg. the warg charges at sam as he desperately attempts to load his crossbow , managing to do so and firing a bolt into the warg's head just before he reaches him. meanwhile , alliser thorne is locked in a vicious duel with tormund on the catwalks of castle black , both seemingly evenly matched in skill. however , thorne suffers a grievous wound and is forced to retreat , being dragged to safety as he continues to shout orders to his men.
 mag mar tun doh weg charges castle black's inner gate.
the black brothers defending the wall manage to repel most of the wildlings attacking the outer gate , but one giant manages to make it through , greatly weakening the gate by repeatedly smashing it with his fists and managing to singlehandedly begin lifting the gate. jon , knowing the inner gate won't hold against the massive giant , sends a group of black brothers led by grenn to hold it at any cost. arriving at the inner gate , hill cowers when faced by the giant charging at them , but grenn bolsters his and the others courage by reciting the night's watch oath. the black brothers ready their weapons just as the giant slams himself into the inner gate.
.
sam arrives atop the wall to ask jon for more men to defend the castle , and jon tasks sam with releasing ghost from his pen to assist in the fighting. jon descends the wall and finally enters the fray , quickly dispatching several wildlings and catching the attention of styr the two meet in a single combat. styr eventually gets the upper hand by knocking longclaw away and brutally assaulting jon , smashing his face into an anvil and tossing him into the blacksmith's forge. styr picks jon up and begins strangling him , but jon spits blood in styr's face and distracts him long enough for jon to grab the blacksmith's hammer lying next to him and buries it in styr's skull.
 jon holds a dying ygritte. upon killing styr , jon turns around to find ygritte pointing her bow at him with an arrow drawn. he smiles at her , causing ygritte to hesitate. before either can say anything , ygritte is shot near the heart by an arrow fired from olly , avenging the death of his father at ygritte's hands during the wildling attack on his village. jon holds her in his arms as she tells him that they should have never left the cave , and they lament circumstances that prevented them from being together as she succumbs to her wound.
 tormund makes a last stand before he is subdued by jon and the night's watch. atop the wall , eddison tollett , who jon left in command of the defenses , orders the men to drop the 'scythe.' a huge section of ice suddenly falls away from the wall revealing a massive anchor like blade attached to a chain that swings along the wall , mowing through the wildlings attempting to climb its face. eddison notices the wildling forces are beginning to withdraw into the haunted forest , proclaiming that they have stopped them for now , but that the wildlings still outnumber the black brothers 1 , 000 to 1 and that mance was simply testing their defenses. below , a heavily wounded tormund is surrounded in the courtyard but continues to fight despite being the only wildling alive in castle black. he is finally subdued by jon with a crossbow and taken prisoner by the night's watch for interrogation. sam returns to gilly just like he promised and discovers janos slynt , who hid in fear during the entire battle. against all odds , the night's watch have repelled mance rayder's forces for the time being.
the following morning , what is left of castle black's garrison begin to regroup and prepare for the inevitable next attack by mance rayder. jon discusses with sam that he has a suicidal solution to end the wildling threat he plans to assassinate mance rayder , noting that he is the only thing binding the disparate wildling clans that make up the army , and his death will rob them of that purpose and leadership. sam tries to talk sense into jon , but to no avail. as jon prepares to leave via castle black's tunnel , they discover the bodies of the black brothers who held the inner gate against the giant. grenn is amongst the casualties and jon tells sam that all bodies must be burned. before jon leaves , he remembers the promise he made to jeor mormont and decides to leave longclaw with sam. sam tells jon to come back , and jon looks at sam and smiles unreassuringly before stepping out into the wilderness on the other side of the gate.
 the watchers on the wall is the ninth episode of the fourth season of game of thrones 1 . it is the thirty ninth episode of the series overall. it premiered on june 8 , 2014. it was written by producers david benioff and d.b. weiss and directed by neil marshall.
the night's watch , although hopelessly outnumbered , attempts to defend castle black from mance rayder's massive wildling army , who plan to siege the fortress from the north. meanwhile , a secret garrison of wildlings including tormund , styr , and ygritte are poised to launch a surprise attack from the south of the wall.

<The Children>

 at the wall , and beyond.
jon snow emerges from the outer gate of the wall and begins trudging north through the aftermath of the previous night's battle towards mance rayder's war camp. jon eventually reaches the tree line and is quickly surrounded by wildlings , who bring him before mance , who notes that he is wearing the black of the night's watch again. mance brings jon inside his tent , and questions his status as a traitor. jon confesses that his time spent with the wildlings was all part of a plan orchestrated by qhorin halfhand to get jon to infiltrate mance's army , and that qhorin tricked mance into trusting jon by allowing jon to kill qhorin himself in a fight. mance asks about ygritte and jon reveals that she died at the battle of castle black , though not by his hands. saddened , mance proposes that they drink a toast to her memory , but jon is hesitant when given an unfamiliar drink. jon accepts after mance assures him that if he'd wanted to kill jon , poison would be the last of his methods. mance then asks about the giant who got through the gate but never came out , and jon informs mance that the giant perished attempting to breach the inner gate at the hands of his friend grenn. mance ruefully notes that the giant was named mag the mighty , and he was king of the giants , the last of a bloodline stretching back thousands of years before the first men entered westeros , to which jon then glibly notes that his friend grenn was from a farm. they have another toast to mag and grenn.
jon then proposes his terms to mance mance is to turn his army around and return home. mance immediately counters that the night's watch is low on oil , arrows , and men , and when he sent his full force against the wall the night's watch threw everything they had at him to repel the attack. mance guesses there are no more than 50 men left guarding castle black , but jon lies and insists that there are still over 1 , 000 men defending the garrison. however , mance calls jon's bluff and reveals that after seeing how few men were defending castle black , he sent 400 men about five miles west to climb an unmanned section of the wall , and they will attack castle black's weak southern side as soon as he gives the order. mance then changes his demeanor and reveals that his people have suffered enough bloodshed and that he has no intention of conquering the lands south of the wall that the wildlings are moving south to seek refuge from the growing threat of the white walkers just as those south of the wall are. mance then makes his counteroffer if the night's watch will open the gates to the wildlings and allow them to pass through the wall , no more harm will come to the black brothers. however , if his terms are refused , his wildling army will slaughter every last member of the night's watch and move south by force.
mance then notices that jon is eyeing a cooking knife , and quickly deduces that jon came to parley with mance simply so he could assassinate him. he notes that at that moment his personal guards are far enough across the room that jon might actually be able to kill him before being cut down himself , but that jon must have known he would die assassinating mance. mance is shocked and questions jon if this is what the night's watch has sunk to killing a man who let him into his own tent , accepting a parley in good faith , who shared food and drink with him , and who even offered him relatively reasonable peace terms. jon hesitates , but before anyone can make a move , war horns are heard from outside. mance's guards safely grab jon during the distraction , and mance demands to know if the night's watch is attacking them , but jon admits that it's just as mance said the night's watch doesn't have remotely enough numbers to leave the safety of the wall and attack.
columns of heavy horse carrying hundreds of mounted cavalry charge into the wildling camp carrying the flaming stag banners of house baratheon of dragonstone , and are led by none other than stannis baratheon and davos seaworth. the wildlings are caught in their own camp , resting from the battle the night before and only expecting attacks from the wall , so their eastern flank is completely undefended. as they are undisciplined and have no experience fighting heavily armored cavalry , they are quickly dispatched by stannis' riders , who attack the wildling camp from both sides in two separate columns that catch the wildlings in a perfect double envelopment. quickly cutting the wildling forces down , stannis and davos ride up to mance , who throws down his weapons in surrender , officially ending the wildlings' siege of castle black.
davos introduces stannis as the true king of the seven kingdoms , but mance wryly points out that they are not currently in the seven kingdoms. stannis demands that it is customary to kneel when surrendering to a king. resignedly , mance says that the free folk do not kneel , knowing that stannis will kill him if he does not. davos , however , asks what a man of the night's watch is doing in the camp , and jon explains that he came to treaty with the king beyond the wall. jon says that he knows that stannis is the true king , as his own father died supporting his claim , revealing himself as the bastard son of eddard stark. this makes stannis regard jon more seriously. stannis proclaims that eddard was an honorable man , and asks jon what ned would have done with mance. jon responds that mance could have killed him or tortured him when he was his captive but instead he spared his life , so instead of killing mance he should be taken prisoner and interrogated. before they leave the wildling camp , jon also urges stannis to burn the dead before nightfall. .
 melisandre looks through the flames , and sees snow.
back at castle black , a funeral is held for the slain members of the night's watch , who have been arranged in a huge funeral pyre in the castle courtyard. maester aemon delivers a eulogy , saying that they died to protect the men , women , and children of the south who will never even know who they were , that it is the duty of the surviving black brothers to keep alive their memory. aemon closes his speech with the customary line , and now their watch has ended , which is repeated by the gathered men. samwell then aids aemon in setting the pyre alight , which is continued by jon and other men carrying torches. stannis and davos look on , along with queen selyse and princess shireen. jon looks across the flames and catches the gaze of melisandre , who is standing on the opposite side of the pyre. melisandre seems intrigued , her piercing stare clearly making jon uneasy.
afterwards , jon enters the chamber of the castle where tormund is being held. tormund asks why blind old maester aemon patched up his arrow wounds , and jon says that aemon is sworn to heal all wounded men , friend or foe. tormund asks if jon really loved ygritte. jon doesn't respond. tormund says that ygritte truly loved him , and that he knew because although she never admitted it , she talked only of killing him , revealing her true feelings for him if she hadn't loved him , she wouldn't have been so angered by his betrayal . saddened , tormund implores jon that ygritte's final resting place should be in the real north. jon then takes ygritte's corpse to the north side of the wall and builds a funeral pyre for her near a sacred heart tree. jon looks at his lover one last time and lights her pyre , and weeps silently as he turns his back and heads home.
far to the north , bran stark and the reed children continue their journey to find the three eyed raven , though they are on the brink of exhaustion. jojen reed has grown sick and and he is barely able to stand , eventually collapsing into the snow. as meera begs jojen to gather what little strength he can muster to continue forward , bran calls out to them , revealing that they have found the massive heart tree that bran has seen in his visions. as they approach the tree , wights burst up from the snow , grabbing jojen's ankles and attempting to drag him under the ice. these wights appear far older than those seen near the wall , appearing as ghastly skeletal warriors who move with surprising agility. meera attempts to defend jojen from the wights , but they begin to swarm over hodor , who is too scared to fight back. bran wargs into hodor's mind and begins fighting off the wights with the aid of his direwolf summer , but more wights keep bursting through the ice and they are quickly overwhelmed.
just as all seems lost , the wights around bran suddenly burst into fireballs , and he hears a young girl's voice calling to him from a cave entrance at the base of the heart tree. amidst the confusion jojen is repeatedly stabbed by a wight before meera can fight it off. the mysterious girl calls to meera and says that jojen is lost and that she must leave him if she wants to live. meera hesitates , but jojen urges her to save herself. crying , meera slits her brother's throat to grant him the mercy of a quick death. meera runs to the cave entrance along with bran , hodor , and summer while the mysterious child covers their retreat by magically throwing fireballs from her hands at the wights. just as the life drains from jojen's eyes , she launches a fireball at his body , immolating his corpse and preventing his return as a wight and fulfilling jojen's vision that his death would involve fire .
they run into the cave , pursued by the wights , who instantly shatter upon crossing the threshold of the cave. the little girl explains that the power which animates the dead corpses is powerless inside the cave. when bran asks who she is , she replies that the first men called us 'the children , but we were born long before them. bran realizes that she is one of the last surviving members of the children of the forest , the original , non human inhabitants of westeros who carved the faces into weirwood trees and taught the first men to worship the old gods thousands of years ago.
the child leads them deeper into the cave , which is overgrown with white weirwood roots from the massive tree above. other children of the forest peek out around corners as they advance. finally , they arrive at a large central chamber , its floor littered with bones. in the middle of the cave is an old man seated in the middle of weirwood roots , which have grown around and even through much of his body. hodor places bran on the ground and bran crawls towards the old man , asking if he is the three eyed raven who appeared in his visions. the old man admits that he is , having taken several forms in the past , but his true form is before them now. meera is upset that her brother died to reach him , but the three eyed raven says that jojen who possessed the greensight , as bran does always knew that he would die helping bran arrive here , but that he came nonetheless. he informs them that he has been watching all of them throughout their entire lives with a thousand eyes , and one. he continues by stating that jojen died so that bran could come here and regain what he has lost. bran asks if he means he will regain the use of his legs. the three eyed raven replies that bran will never walk again , but you will fly. .
a.
 across the narrow sea.
in meereen , queen daenerys targaryen sits in her throne room where she is receiving the day's supplicants. an old man named fennesz approaches the throne , first speaking in high valyrian but then revealing that he also knows the common tongue. fennesz explains that he was not one of the slaves who toiled away at manual labor , but a well educated teacher and servant to master mighdal , who employed him as a teacher for his own children. he tells daenarys that master mighdal's seven year old daughter calla admires daenerys , having learned of the targaryen dynasty through fennesz's teachings.
as a servant of master mighdal , fennesz was well treated and even well respected in the household , but when daenerys forcibly freed all of the slaves in the city she did not understand the full scale complications of suddenly having to care for so many people. fennesz originally stayed in master mighdal's house after she took the city , and mighdal's children begged him to stay , but mighdal and fennesz agreed that he must leave rather than face reprisals , forcing fennesz to become homeless. daenerys insists that she had established mess halls to feed the freed slaves and barracks to house them. fennez says that he has visited these refugee centers and they are not very safe the young prey on the old , assaulting and robbing them. daenerys insists that her unsullied will restore order , but fennesz points out that even assuming that they are able to ensure his physical safety , he has lost his livelihood and his purpose and is too old to start anew. therefore , he has come to daenerys to beg her permission to sell himself back to mighdal. she is shocked that he would want to be owned as a slave again , as a man might own a goat or a chair. he implores her that the young may rejoice in her new world , but for those too old to change , there is only fear and squalor. nor , he says , is he alone there are many supplicants waiting outside lining up to make similar requests.
daenerys is crestfallen , and says she did not liberate the slaves of meereen only to preside over the very injustice she sought to destroy , but surprisingly relents and admits that freedom means making one's own choices. therefore she will allow fennesz to enter into a labor contract with mighdal , but lasting no more than one year. he earnestly thanks her , and leaves. ser barristan selmy warns daenerys that the masters will assuredly take advantage of this , quickly making contracts with all of the displaced former slaves until they are all slaves again in all but name.
the next supplicant then enters , a shepherd carrying a bundle in his arms , similarly to the herdsman who came to show the bones of their livestock which daenerys's dragons burned in order to be reimbursed. the shepherd timidly approaches and states that he is unable to speak in the common tongue and requires missandei to translate. distraught , he tells daenarys that the winged shadow came , placing the bundle on the ground and opening it to reveal charred bones of a human child. daenerys's largest dragon the black one , drogon has roasted the man's three year old daughter zalla until this is all that was left of her. horrified , daenerys meets with missandei and grey worm in private to discuss how to deal with the growing threat the dragons are posing to the people of meereen. grey worm reports that drogon was last seen flying over the black cliffs three days ago , but he can no longer be found. realizing that she can no longer control her dragons , daenerys tells them to head with her to the catacombs under the city. later , she leads her remaining two dragons , rhaegal and viserion , into the catacombs , where they are distracted by sheep carcasses. as they are feeding , daenerys personally locks huge iron collars around their necks , which are secured by heavy chains. she weeps as she does so , as it is symbolically reducing her remaining children to chained up slaves themselves. daenerys wordlessly leaves and closes the huge stone door to the catacombs behind her as her dragons grow distressed and pathetically call after her when they attempt to follow and realize they are chained in place.
i.
 in the seven kingdoms.
in grand maester pycelle's laboratory in king's landing , cersei , pycelle , and qyburn stand over ser gregor clegane , who lies immobilized on a flat wooden table and is revealed to be suffering from a massive wound centered around his right side. pycelle informs cersei that oberyn martell had coated his spear with manticore venom , poisoning ser gregor. the effects are horrific , with gregor's wounds putrefying and creating a terrible stench. pycelle says that he is beyond any hope of recovery , but qyburn insists to cersei that he can save him using more unorthodox methods. pycelle chaffes at his suggestion , stating that he is not even a maester , and that such arrogance is what led to qyburn's expulsion from the citadel in the first place , for experiments that were deemed both dangerous and unnatural. cersei , determined to save gregor from death , dismisses pycelle and orders qyburn to do whatever is necessary , infuriating pycelle , who angrily shuffles out of the laboratory. she asks qyburn if his treatment will work , and qyburn claims that if his past work is any indicator , he stands a chance at saving gregor. qyburn states that the process will change him , although cersei seems only concerned with whether it will weaken him , to which qyburn replies oh no. cersei leaves , and qyburn begins syphoning out gregor's tainted blood.
cersei approaches tywin and insists that she will not submit to a forced marriage to ser loras tyrell. he attempts to dismiss the subject by stating that the matter is closed , but she persists and says that it is not just because she does not love loras he wants to ship her off to highgarden and remove her from the court entirely , keeping her away from her last remaining son. with cersei out of the picture , both margaery and tywin will attempt to get their claws into tommen , each trying to manipulate him into their allegiance. tywin refuses to budge , so cersei plays her trump card she threatens to destroy house lannister by telling everyone the truth. tywin seems confused , and at first cersei scoffs that he is merely feigning ignorance. with growing realization , she assesses that even the brilliant tywin lannister never noticed what was going on between his own children , when all it would have taken was one attentive moment in the past twenty years. tywin is still apparently confused , so with a merciless grin cersei reveals that all of the rumors about her and jaime and their children are true she will tell everyone and destroy tywin's vaunted family legacy , even though it will also mean her death and tommen's death. tywin shakes with barely constrained rage , but in denial he accuses that cersei is simply lying to anger him. cersei says she doubts he truly thinks that and leaves him standing in his chamber alone.
cersei finds jaime in the white sword tower , and he expresses disgust at her blatant attempts to have tyrion killed. cersei asserts that tyrion killed their mother when she gave birth to him. jaime is surprised that she still irrationally blames him for that , pointing out that he was an infant and had no control over what happened. he insists that tyrion is her family , whether she chooses to accept it or not. she rebukes his claim , saying he is not her family and that they all have a choice , and that she chooses jaime. she then reveals that she has spilled their secret to tywin. he is stunned and concerned by her actions , asking how tywin reacted to the news , but she states that she does not want to discuss their father. she begins to seduce him , saying she chooses her brother over everyone else in the world , no longer concerned with whether anyone else knows their secret. he yields to her advances , kissing her passionately and throwing her on the table where they begin to have sex.
in the middle of the night , tyrion is awoken in his cell by the sound of his cell door being opened by jaime , who reveals that he has orchestrated an escape plan for tyrion with the assistance of varys , who has secured a galley in the harbor on which tyrion can sneak out of the city and flee to the free cities. he leads tyrion to a stairway leading up to a locked door , instructing tyrion to knock on it twice and then twice more to summon varys , who will lead him to the ship. before they part ways , tyrion and jaime share a tender embrace and say their goodbyes , unsure if either will ever see the other again.
tyrion , alone , stares at the door at the top of the staircase , ultimately deciding to use the secret passages of the red keep to infiltrate the tower of the hand. he enters the hand of the king's quarters , and sees a woman lying in tywin's bed , with tywin's clothes folded up on a chair. as he draws closer he sees that the woman is shae , who thinks it is tywin and calls out for him , calling him my lion as she had once done to tyrion. when she turns over and sees that it is tyrion , looking utterly betrayed , she grabs a knife to defend herself. tyrion could retreat but instead he rushes forward onto the bed to wrestle it from her grasp. tyrion manages to knock the knife from her hands and the two continue to struggle violently until tyrion manages to grab the necklace around her throat which he once gave her as a gift and strangles her with it. he continues to strangle her long after she has stopped resisting , until she is dead. he sinks to the floor and sits next to shae's lifeless body , weeping , and tells her he's sorry. he stares at the wall across the room and sees several weapons on display , among them joffrey's old crossbow , and his expression quickly darkens.
tyrion takes the crossbow down from the wall , loads it , and heads down the hall to the privy , opening the door to find his father seated upon the toilet. tywin seems surprised to see tyrion , but quickly regains composure and asks tyrion to lower the crossbow. he correctly deduces that jaime helped tyrion escape his cell , telling tyrion that they can discuss the matter back in tywin's chambers. however , when he attempts to stand , tyrion steadies the crossbow , stopping him dead in his tracks. all my life you've wanted me dead , tyrion states , and tywin acknowledges the validity of his claim. he attempts to defuse the situation by telling tyrion that despite this , tyrion has stubbornly clung to life , which tywin states he finds admirable and insists that he was never going to have tyrion actually killed. tyrion admits that he just murdered shae with his bare hands , but tywin scoffs that it doesn't matter as she was nothing more than a whore. tyrion is angered by tywin's indifference and raises the crossbow , threatening that if his father says the word whore one more time he will kill him. tywin balks that tyrion won't kill his own father in the privy , and again tries to convince tyrion that they should continue to discuss this in his chambers. tyrion says he cannot go back to tywin's chambers because shae's body is still there. tywin dares tyrion by calling his bluff and mocking him by saying because you're afraid of a dead whore.
tyrion was not bluffing. the moment tywin utters the word whore again , tyrion looses his crossbow bolt , hitting tywin in the belly and knocking him backwards. tywin is incredulous that tyrion actually had the courage to fight back against him , and that he will die in such an undignified way at the hands of his hated dwarf son. as tyrion reloads the crossbow , tywin angrily declares that tyrion is no son of his. i am your son , tyrion replies quietly , i have always been your son , and fires a second bolt into tywin's heart , killing him. tyrion discards the crossbow as he leaves to find varys , who immediately realizes tyrion has done something terrible , exclaiming what have you done nonetheless , he leads tyrion out of the castle to the docks where tyrion is stowed away inconspicuously in a crate aboard the ship. varys begins walking back towards the red keep but stops when he hears the bells begin to toll , signaling the discovery of tywin's body. realizing that returning to the castle is likely unsafe , varys turns around and heads back for the ship , sitting next to tyrion's crate in silence as they cast off for essos.
in the vale , brienne of tarth and podrick payne are heading towards the bloody gate when they happen upon arya stark practicing her water dancing while sandor clegane is off relieving himself , both returning from the eyrie after receiving words of lysa arryn's death. brienne and arya converse for a moment , both showing respect for one another as they are both women who have fought against what has been expected of them their entire lives. they are interrupted by the return of the hound , who is immediately recognized by podrick , causing brienne to realize that the girl is arya. brienne tells arya of her sacred vow to protect her mother , although she failed to do so because she was sent by her mother to return jaime lannister. the hound immediately accuses brienne of working for the lannisters , noticing her valyrian steel sword oathkeeper , which brienne admits was given to her by jaime , frightening arya into thinking that brienne is working for the lannisters. brienne implores arya to come with her to safety , causing the hound to mock brienne , pointing out that there is no safety for arya anymore her aunt lysa arryn in the eyrie whom brienne and podrick are seeking out is dead , as are her father , mother , and older brother , while the stark armies are scattered and winterfell is a smoking ruin. they draw swords and begin fighting , both eventually disarming each other and resorting to brutally fighting each other in hand to hand combat. ultimately , brienne gains the upper hand by biting off a chunk of sandor's ear and knocks him down a cliff side. brienne goes to search for arya , who slipped away during the melee and has hidden herself amongst the rock formations. as brienne and podrick search the surrounding area for arya in vain , arya makes her way down the cliff side to find the hound badly wounded. he tells her that unless there is a maester miraculously on hand to tend to his wounds , he's finished. sandor tells her to kill him and scratch another name off her list , but she just sits and stares at him silently. he grows angry and begins recounting running down the butcher's boy and how he should have raped sansa in king's landing in an attempt to goad arya into killing him in anger , but she remains silent. sandor finally begs her to kill him and put him out of his misery , but she quietly refuses and takes his money purse , leaving him screaming at her to kill him as she silently walks away.
arya rides a horse to the nearby coast of the vale , where she sees a wharf with ships docked. she approaches a captain and asks if she can pay for travel to the north , but he says that they won't go there because these days the north is full of war , cold , and pirates. instead , the ship is going home to the free city of braavos. arya remembers the special coin that the faceless man known as jaqen h'ghar gave her , and instructed her to present to any man from braavos if she needed aid. she does so now , and the captain is utterly surprised at how she obtained it , but she says only valar morghulis as jaqen instructed , to which the captain gives the traditional response , valar dohaeris. he warmly welcomes her aboard the ship , and insists that she will have her own cabin. as the ship casts off , arya stands aboard the ship and watches as the shore of westeros shrinks further and further away. she then moves to the prow of the ship , looking forward across the narrow sea in the direction of the free cities and braavos.
 the children is the tenth and final episode of the fourth season of game of thrones 1 . it is the fortieth episode of the series overall. it aired on june 15 , 2014. it was written by producers david benioff and d.b. weiss and directed by alex graves.
circumstances change after an unexpected arrival from north of the wall. dany must face harsh realities. bran learns more about his destiny. tyrion sees the truth about his situation.

<The Wars to Come>

 prologue about 25 years ago , in the westerlands.
young cersei and melara , in the prologue flashback.
a young cersei lannister and her wary tag along melara hetherspoon are creeping through the woods of the westerlands. melara doesn't want to continue , but young cersei eggs her on. they reach a hut within the woods , which belongs to a woods witch named maggy. unafraid , cersei walks in first. upon meeting this witch , cersei demands to have her future read. maggy is hesitant at first , but after cersei threatens to have her eyes gouged out , the witch relents. she says she will need a drop of cersei's blood , so cersei pricks her finger on a dagger. maggy tastes her blood and offers the young girl three questions. cersei's first question was if she will marry the prince. maggy says she will not marry the prince , though she will marry the king , and become queen. she then asks if she and the king will have children , and maggy tells her that the king will have twenty children , but she will have three gold will be their crowns and gold their burial shrouds indicating that all three will predecease their mother . finally , she tells cersei that her reign will not last she will be queen , but eventually a younger and more beautiful queen is fated to take her place , along with everything she holds dear.
i.
 in king's landing.
cersei kissing her deceased father tywin.
in the present , cersei arrives at the great sept of baelor to pay respect to her deceased father tywin. once inside the sept , she chastises her brother jaime for freeing their brother tyrion and indirectly causing their father's death. at tywin's wake , cersei is approached by lancel lannister. he has become a devout member of the sparrows , a religious cult , and asks cersei's forgiveness for their adulterous relationship , as well as getting her husband robert baratheon obscenely drunk on the day he died. cersei denies any knowledge of her husband's murder , and shrugs off lancel.
 loras in bed with olyvar.
while in bed together , loras and the male prostitute olyvar contemplate a birthmark on loras's thigh which looks a little like dorne. margaery walks in on them , complains about his lack of discretion and sends olyvar away. loras retorts that since his sexuality is an open secret anyway , there isn't much point in discretion. he also opines that as tywin is dead , no one will force cersei to marry him anymore. he points out how this will leave cersei in king's landing , free to harass margaery. margaery simply replies with perhaps. .
i.
 in the free cities.
in pentos , varys speaks to tyrion about his future.
tyrion arrives in pentos , with the aid of varys. varys tells tyrion that he and illyrio mopatis had worked together in secret to restore house targaryen to the rule of westeros , but that their errors have left them in pentos , unable to return to king's landing. tyrion has descended into bitterness and self loathing , seemingly determined to drink himself to death , but varys angrily snaps him out of his self pity , telling tyrion that he still has talents that may yet be of use talents that he could use to seat the right candidate on the iron throne. varys states that westeros is mired in chaos and on the brink of ruin the seven kingdoms requires a ruler , one stronger than tommen yet gentler than stannis , beloved by the people , able to please the common folk and keep the nobility in line. when tyrion retorts that such a man does not exist , varys points out that he never said this ruler would be a man. varys offers tyrion the choice of either drinking himself to death in pentos , or travelling with him to meereen to support daenerys targaryen. after a moment , tyrion agrees.
i.
 in slaver's bay.
the unsullied remove the large gold harpy from the top of the great pyramid in meereen to show the meereenese people they are under targaryen rule now and their old traditions are gone. one of the unsullied , white rat , is seen walking into a brothel and pays a prostitute to lie with him and comfort him. he is subsequently murdered by a member of the sons of the harpy , a resistance group operating in meereen. upon being presented with the murderer's mask left at the scene , daenerys orders grey worm to find those responsible , and for the murdered soldier to be buried in the temple of the graces as a statement.
 dany attempts to visit her dragons.
hizdahr zo loraq and daario naharis return to meereen and declare that their mission to yunkai has been successful , and that the wise masters will turn over power to a council of former slaves and former slave owners. in exchange , the wise masters have asked that daenerys consent to the reopening of the fighting pits , an arena where slaves used to fight to the death. daenerys denies the request. later , daario convinces her to reconsider , as his youth fighting in the pits gave him the fighting skills necessary for him to join the second sons , where he met daenerys. upon hearing that drogon hasn't been seen in weeks , daario muses on the irony of a dragon queen with no dragons.
later , daenerys attempts to visit viserion and rhaegal , whom she locked underground in the meereenese catacombs to prevent them from killing innocents or fleeing both of which drogon did . when she approaches them , they attempt to attack her , forcing her to briskly escape the room.
i.
 in the vale.
littlefinger , sansa , sweetrobin arryn , and lord royce at runestone in the vale.
littlefinger and sansa watch over lord robin arryn's struggles while sparring with another young boy. while watching robin spar , sansa witnesses baelish receive a message , which he quickly hides. lord yohn royce has agreed to take robin as his ward and train him to fight , but is not optimistic of his abilities , stating he swings a sword like a girl with palsy. though littlefinger told lord royce that he and sansa would be traveling to the fingers , they instead head west. sansa asks if they have anything to fear from lord yohn littlefinger explains that he doesn't trust the retainers and soldiers who saw them , and is taking sansa somewhere the lannisters will never find her.
podrick payne attempts to plan the next move for himself and brienne of tarth , but brienne tells him that she doesn't want anyone following her. he reminds her of the oath she swore to jaime to find the stark girls , but she states that arya did not want her protection. brienne also points out that pod was not safe in king's landing and now that they are far away from the capital , he is safe and they can go their separate ways. littlefinger and sansa's carriage passes them , brienne unaware of how close her goal is.
a.
 at the wall.
jon relay's stannis' offer to mance.
jon snow's attempts at training olly are interrupted by melisandre , who has been sent to fetch jon for an audience with stannis. on the ride to the top of the wall , jon is discomfited by melisandre's presence and questions. stannis explains that he intends to retake the north from lord roose bolton , but needs an army , and desires the free folk to fight for him. he wants jon to convince mance rayder to bend the knee and have the wildlings fight for him in exchange , he would set them free and give them their own land within westeros. jon relays this message to mance , but he refuses to bend the knee to do so would be to show unforgivable weakness in the eyes of his people. because he will not fight for stannis , his punishment is death by being burned alive. on the night of his execution , mance stands before stannis , and although he cannot bend the knee , he offers him luck in the wars to come. mance is led to the stake. melisandre lights the pyre , and mance slowly begins to feel the agonizing pain of the fire. unable to watch him suffer any longer , jon turns and storms off. others turn away from the scene as well , including gilly and shireen. just as mance begins to give in and start screaming , an arrow pierces his chest. it is shot by jon , giving the man he respected an easier death. mance dies before he feels the agony of the flames.
 the wars to come is the first episode of the fifth season of game of thrones. it is the forty first episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 12 , 2015. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by michael slovis.
cersei and jaime adjust to a world without tywin. varys reveals a conspiracy to tyrion. dany faces a new threat to her rule. jon is caught between two kings.

<The House of Black and White>

 in the free cities.
arya turned away from the house of black and white. ternesio terys and arya stark arrive at braavos , and arya is at first scared by the horn blown by the man inside the titan of braavos. the two then arrive at the house of black and white on a boat. arya lingers outside waiting for admittance , but is rejected by an elder man despite showing the coin jaqen h'ghar had given her and mentioning their prior association. arya waits outside the house for days , endlessly reciting the names of the people she's going to kill , but eventually tosses away her coin and wanders off into the streets of braavos. while hunting for pigeons , she encounters several thugs who threaten to take her food and needle. as she prepares to defend herself , the boys scatter when the man from the house of black and white appears again. after following him back to the house , arya demands he divulge his identity , and he returns to her the coin she threw in the water before. his face morphs into that of the man arya knew as jaqen. stating that a man is not jaqen h'ghar , he responds to arya's question as to who he really is with the answer no one. and that is what a girl must become as he indicates that arya may now enter the house.
further south , tyrion lannister and varys depart pentos in a large wheelhouse pulled by many horses. tyrion remains despondent , and as he promised , he is continuing to drink himself into a stupor. varys explains that they are travelling to meereen by way of volantis. varys points out that tyrion was an effective ruler when he was acting hand of the king , and that each of them were outsiders due to their deformities a eunuch and a dwarf . they enjoyed accumulating power , he says , but they also wall themselves off from other people , like hiding inside of a large carriage as they are now but deep down they were never satisfied being separate from society. tyrion is unmoved from his depression , and continues to insist that he's tired of being confined in a box of some sort. varys again warns him that he must remain hidden and that it is unsafe to be seen publicly cersei has promised a lordship to any man who brings her his head. tyrion scoffs and rhetorically asks if cersei is going to kill every dwarf in the world in the hope of eventually catching him.
i.
 in king's landing and the crownlands.
in king's landing , cersei lannister is presented with the severed head of yet another dwarf. her offer of a lordship for tyrion's head has indeed motivated people to start killing any dwarf they can find and try to pass it off as tyrion. cersei is irate , but won't punish the men who brought her the head for fear this will deter other such bounty hunters. she wants the head disposed of , but qyburn interjects and politely asks if he can keep the head , as it might be of use in some of his experiments. .
 cersei shows jaime the gift from dorne. cersei summons jaime to their late father's office and reveals a gift from dorne an ornately carved viper , with princess myrcella's unique lannister pendant suspended from its fangs. she insists it is a threat against myrcella , a conclusion jaime can't refute. cersei lashes out at jaime for not being a father to any of his children , to which he points out that if he had been , their children would be stoned in the streets. he declares he will fix the situation with myrcella and ignores cersei's mocking of his one handed status.
that issue dealt with , cersei convenes the small council. sitting in the hand's seat , she announces that tommen has declared qyburn the new master of whisperers and that the position of hand of the king will remain vacant until tommen is old enough to decide on a candidate for himself. tommen has apparently also decided to make mace tyrell the new master of coin in addition to his duties as master of ships , and extends the just now made up position of master of war to kevan lannister. although mace preens at his new responsibilities , pycelle is outraged at qyburn's promotion as he was thrown out of the order of maesters for conducting human experimentation . kevan is disgusted at cersei's blatant power play. refusing the new position , he denounces cersei as nothing more than the queen mother , berates her for abusing her authority to fill the small council with her sycophants. he then walks out , saying he will await king tommen's own instructions at casterly rock.
further north in the crownlands at castle stokeworth , bronn is spending time with his somewhat vapid betrothed lollys stokeworth. they seem to get on relatively well , but when lollys reminds bronn that her older sister will get the castle when their mother dies , he wryly assures her that mean people like her sister usually get what's coming to them , clearly setting his sights on the castle. jaime finds the couple , and reveals to bronn that cersei has reneged on her deal and offered lollys's hand to ser willas bracken instead. bronn is understandably furious about the change of arrangements until jaime tells him that if he helps rescue myrcella from dorne , bronn will receive a much better girl than lollys , who has rights to a much better castle.
i.
 in dorne.
ellaria and doran discuss oberyn's death. in the water gardens of dorne , ellaria sand rudely demands an audience with doran martell , the ruling prince of dorne. his bodyguard , areo hotah , blocks her path , yet doran tells him to let her pass. she wants to take princess myrcella , who at that very moment is enjoying trystane martell's company , so that she can send the princess piece by piece to cersei as revenge for oberyn martell's murder. doran refuses , reminding her that oberyn had participated in a trial by combat , and therefore his death was legal , and not murder. he states dorne will not stoop to the level of mutilating children while he rules , even if the sand snakes are siding with ellaria. sneering , ellaria asks how long he expects to rule for and storms out. hotah and the prince exchange a look as she departs , the former meaningfully indicating his axe , but doran shakes his head and returns his attention to the water gardens as he contemplates his next move.
i.
 in the vale.
brienne and podrick arrive at an inn and dine. podrick spots sansa stark with petyr baelish , and brienne tells him to ready the horses and she confronts them. .
 brienne swears to sansa.
brienne mentions her sworn vow to sansa's mother catelyn , while littlefinger points out how she was accused of murdering renly baratheon and how both he and catelyn are now dead. sansa denies brienne's request and littlefinger urges that she stay at the inn as the road is not safe , and seeing this as a trap , brienne escapes with podrick on the horses they take. they are chased through a forest as brienne fights the men and podrick is thrown off his horse. reuniting , podrick mentions how both stark girls denied her request for protection , but brienne retorts by doubting sansa is safe with littlefinger. brienne tells podrick to get his horse as they attempt to further pursue sansa and littlefinger.
i.
 in meereen.
barristan selmy tells daenarys the truth about her father , the mad king. daario and grey worm find a house belonging to a son of the harpy allegedly responsible for white rat's death. daario explains that he has been using the second sons as spies throughout meereen , since they are far less conspicuous than unsullied and can indulge in the same vices as their informants daario indicates his men's effectiveness by stabbing his dagger through a false wall , seriously injuring the man hiding behind it.
back at the great pyramid , daenerys and her council debate executing this harpy's son , but the debate devolves into a shouting match between mossador and hizdahr zo loraq. after the rest leave , ser barristan tells her about her father , and confirms that , contrary to what viserys told her , the mad king was indeed quite mad , citing how his crimes against house stark ultimately led to the rebellion that all but destroyed the targaryen dynasty. mollified by the revelation , particularly that her crazed father always thought his atrocities were serving justice to his enemies , daenerys promises ser barristan that there will be a trial for the accused. before the trial begins , mossador kills the harpy's son. daenerys , hoping to preserve the integrity of law , has mossador publicly executed , causing the freed slaves to hiss at her and throw rocks at her as she leaves , along with a riot between the former slaves and masters breaking out.
later that night , daenerys dismisses her council and goes outside. to her relief , drogon , now the size of a small house , has alighted just above her balcony. drogon sniffs her outstretched hand , and though he doesn't attack , he flies away again , leaving his mother alone.
a.
 at the wall.
shireen baratheon teaches gilly how to read in castle black's library , apparently to sam's chagrin. gilly asks about shireen's greyscale scars , revealing that the wildlings don't really have a word for it and that two of her sisters contracted and were driven mad by the disease , before craster put them out of their misery. queen selyse interrupts the proceedings and dismisses sam and gilly. she lectures shireen on the dangers of spending time with any wildlings , since they could conceivably use gilly to harm stannis through shireen. shireen , however , doubts that that's how things will go.
 bear island knows no king but the king in the north , whose name is stark. lyanna mormont , ten year old lady of bear island.
stannis himself , meanwhile , discusses jon snow's recent defiance. stannis shows jon a message he received from lady lyanna mormont in response to the demand that house mormont pledge itself to stannis' cause. the note refuses , saying that the mormonts know only one king , the king in the north , and will only follow a stark. jon tells stannis that , like the wildlings , the northerners will only follow one of their own. realizing this is true , stannis makes jon an enticing offer if he leaves the night's watch , stannis will use his authority as king to officially legitimize him as jon stark , lord of winterfell , so he can rally the north to stannis's side and resume the fight against the boltons , freys , and lannisters. jon is visibly moved at the prospect of having his lifelong dream finally come true , but he later admits to sam that he plans to turn stannis down he is a man of the night's watch.
the election for the new lord commander of the night's watch commences , overseen by maester aemon. janos slynt nominates alliser thorne. another brother names denys mallister , commander of the shadow tower. the vote almost begins before sam interrupts to put forward a third nomination jon snow. when the votes are cast , a tie is called snow and thorne have garnered an equal number of votes. with a wry smile , maester aemon casts his own vote for jon snow. the black brothers hail jon as the 998th lord commander of the night's watch.
 the house of black and white is the second episode of the fifth season of game of thrones. it is the forty second episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 19 , 2015. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by michael slovis.
arya arrives in braavos. pod and brienne run into trouble on the road. cersei fears for her daughter's safety in dorne as ellaria sand seeks revenge for oberyn's death. stannis tempts jon. an adviser tempts dany.

<High Sparrow>

 in king's landing.
tommen and margaery are wed. as cersei lannister passes a large crowd on her way to the great sept of baelor , she is increasingly annoyed as people cheer on margaery , completely ignoring her. tommen baratheon and margaery tyrell are wed , much to the dismay of cersei. that night , they consummate their marriage. they are elated and discuss their future together. tommen thinks that his mother is unhappy in king's landing. seeing an opportunity , margaery manipulates tommen into thinking that as long as cersei stays in king s landing , she will continue to treat him like a child , watching over him. the next morning , tommen and cersei are out for a walk. tommen tells his mother that he thinks she should return to casterly rock if it will make her happy , since she used to talk so fondly of it , but cersei declines. deducing that this is margaery s doing , cersei pays her a visit , to find margaery busy gloating about her exhausting night with the king. greeting her mother in law , margaery now more confident than ever , subtly rubs her queenship in cersei s face. seeing herself losing , cersei walks away.
in littlefinger's brothel , the sparrows attack the high septon as he engages the services of prostitutes dressed as the seven. he is forced to walk naked through the streets while the sparrows proclaim him a sinner. angered by the humiliation , he wants the small council to arrest the sparrows and execute their leader , the high sparrow. although unsympathetic , cersei decides to meet with the high sparrow , who turns out to be a humble man serving food to the poor , barefoot. the high sparrow makes no efforts to hide the actions of the other sparrows. cersei tells him that he will not be arrested or executed , and that the high septon has been imprisoned instead , which surprises the high sparrow. returning to the red keep , cersei has qyburn send a message to petyr baelish. as qyburn writes , behind him , the body of gregor clegane begins shaking under the sheet , but qyburn shushes him calmly.
i.
 in the north.
while being served lunch by reek , roose bolton scolds ramsay on his recent flaying of lord cerwyn and his family on what was supposed to be a routine tax collection. ramsay points out that he eventually got the taxes , but roose reminds his son that terror cannot sustain their hold on the north and that they are outnumbered if the other houses rise up in rebellion. with tywin lannister's death , the pact between the lannisters and the boltons is effectively dead. roose then declares that the best way to cement bolton control of the north is through marriage.
sansa stark is horrified to see moat cailin. there is only one reason baelish could be taking her there he means to return her to winterfell , straight into the arms of the boltons. recalling their earlier discussion of a marriage proposal , sansa realizes that the proposal is not for him , but for her , and furiously declares that she would rather die than marry roose bolton. littlefinger corrects her and clarifies that she will be marrying ramsay bolton , then calms her down by convincing her that nobody will look for her there , and suggesting that this is her best opportunity for revenge. sansa reluctantly agrees.
 the boltons greet sansa and baelish at winterfell itself , the boltons and their households greet sansa and littlefinger. after a tense moment , sansa graciously accepts roose's welcome , putting on an air of politeness that protected her in king's landing , while from afar , ramsay's bedwarmer and secret lover , myranda , observes with jealousy and anger. sansa is later shown to her old room , seemingly foreign to her after all this time. to her surprise , the servant attending her welcomes her back and quietly assures her that , the north remembers. later , as sansa explores the castle , reek hides his face from her , but seems to have difficulty forcing himself not to call out to her.
elsewhere in the castle , baelish subtly warns ramsay against inflicting any harm on sansa , and discusses the situation with roose , who is suspicious of littlefinger's motives in betraying the lannisters. baelish points out that tywin is dead , jaime is one handed and politically useless , and that cersei is about to be forced into the background by margaery , who is quite fond of sansa. bolton , nevertheless , demands to read any messages littlefinger might send off back to the capital.
a.
 at the wall.
king stannis baratheon tries unsuccessfully to convince the new lord commander of the night's watch , jon snow , to accept his offer of legitimization. jon declines stannis's offer and reiterates that his place is with the night's watch. jon also reiterates the night's watch's neutrality in the affairs of the seven kingdoms and asks stannis when he plans to leave castle black's stores are insufficient to feed the night's watch , stannis's army , and the wildling prisoners indefinitely. stannis confirms that his army will leave soon enough to confront the boltons at winterfell before the winter snows trap them at the wall. he leaves the fate of the wildling prisoners in jon's hands , allowing jon to decide whether to execute them or to see if tormund is more willing to negotiate than mance. when stannis suggests appointing alliser thorne as the new commander of eastwatch by the sea , jon retorts that it is better to have your enemies close by than far away. as davos seaworth prepares to leave with his liege , he invites jon to ponder on the second to last stanza on the night's watch oath i am the shield that guards the realms of men. he also assures jon that stannis's leadership advice is offered because the king has taken a liking to him.
later , at the mess hall , lord commander jon snow asks sam about maester aemon and it is learned his health is waning and entrusts his care in sam's hands. jon begins assigning roles to members of the watch. he assigns one black brother to oversee the digging of a new latrine pit to accommodate the wildling prisoners. snow also shows respect to ser alliser thorne by appointing him as the new first ranger , commending his experience. finally , lord commander snow assigns janos slynt with the task of restoring and manning the abandoned castle greyguard. slynt refuses jon not once , but three times. even after being warned that he is disobeying a direct order , he flippantly tells jon that he can take his order and 'shove it up his bastard arse.' having publicly disobeyed and insulted jon , the lord commander orders janos taken outside , and calls for olly to fetch him his sword. ser alliser briefly hesitates but then moves out of the way to let dolorous edd and others grab slynt , who angrily protests that he has important friends at court and dismisses the matter as a scare tactic.
 small justice for ned stark.
jon has janos dragged out into the courtyard where , obedient to the laws of his father eddard stark that the man who passes the sentence must swing the sword he prepares to publicly behead him for treason. slynt's bluster is lost , and the man who once took a baby girl from her mother's arms and killed her starts crying and begging for mercy , saying he will do whatever jon asks and that he is afraid. jon hesitates for a moment , but then fixes his nerve and executes the cowardly former commander of the city watch with a single swing of his sword incidentally exacting small justice on one of the men who betrayed his own father to his death and murdered robert baratheon's children. from across the courtyard , stannis baratheon sees jon behead janos for refusing his orders , and slightly nods in approval.
i.
 in the free cities.
arya is accosted by the waif in braavos , arya stark has been put to work cleaning the main sanctuary of the house of black and white. she watches as jaqen h'ghar assists a supplicant in drinking from the temple's well. she protests to jaqen that she wants to learn , but he brushes off her discontent. later on , arya is accosted in her room by the waif , who repeatedly asks her who she is , hitting her when she gives the expected response of no one. jaqen eventually arrives and demands to know what is going on , as the waif has overstepped her bounds. he does , however , point out that arya cannot be no one , as she is wearing arya stark's clothes , is in possession of silver stolen by arya stark , and was about to attack the waif using arya stark's sword. realizing his point , arya binds her old clothing to a rock and tosses it into the lagoon along with the stolen silver. she cannot bring herself to discard needle so easily , and instead hides it within a sea wall nearby. back at the house , jaqen allows arya to progress to an inner chamber where she is to assist the waif in stripping and washing corpses. the waif is silent when arya asks what happens to the bodies after they are cleaned.
 the red priestess.
meanwhile , further south in the free cities , tyrion lannister and varys finally arrive at volantis. sick of the carriage they've been riding in , tyrion again dismisses the dangers and insists they leave to explore. the pair move through the long bridge's markets , where varys explains the meaning of the various tattoos volantene slaves must sport. varys nearly loses tyrion , but finds him observing the sermon of a red priestess. tyrion claims curiosity , since thoros of myr was the only red priest in king's landing. the red priestess evangelizes in high valyrian , telling the tale of how she was once a slave herself. like another red priestess , she preaches of a prophesied savior , a dragon queen. tyrion's interest in the scene wanes when the priestess halts in her sermon and stares directly into his eyes.
tyrion next leads varys to a brothel. catching sight of a prostitute dressed as daenerys , varys tells tyrion that a woman who inspires both sermons and whores is probably worth meeting. tyrion woos a dark haired prostitute , but when she finally agrees to service him , he finds that he can't bring himself to patronize her. he then goes to urinate off the side of the bridge , with varys losing sight of him. as tyrion finishes , he is abducted by jorah mormont , who declares that he is taking him to the queen.
 high sparrow is the third episode of the fifth season of game of thrones. it is the forty third episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 26 , 2015. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by mark mylod.
in braavos , arya sees the many faced god. in king's landing , queen margaery enjoys her new husband. tyrion and varys walk the long bridge of volantis.

<Sons of the Harpy>

 in king's landing.
at a small council meeting , master of coin mace tyrell brings bad news that the iron bank of braavos is starting to call in its debts from westeros. they have started by calling in a tenth of the iron throne's current debts to the bank , which it can only afford half of as rebuilding the royal fleet was also a massive expense. mace offers that house tyrell could front the money for the time being , but cersei clearly does not want to give the tyrells more power over the crown. instead , she says that they will send mace himself to braavos to negotiate for more time , because sending such a high ranking official will show the bank how seriously they take their large debts. mace is oblivious that this is also cersei's way of removing him from the capital , and takes it as a high honor as well as that cersei will send ser meryn trant of the kingsguard along to guard him. after he leaves , pycelle bitterly points out that the small council is growing even smaller the only three members left in the capital are pycelle , cersei , and her lackey qyburn , but she says it hasn't quite grown small enough yet.
 cersei meets with the high sparrow.
cersei then meets with the high sparrow , who by her influence , has been elected as the new high septon of the faith of the seven. cersei is trying to build up a new alliance between the crown and the faith , as a counterweight against the large political influence the tyrells now possess. cersei points out to the high sparrow that the war of the five kings has devastated much of the countryside , resulting in septs being burned , clergymen attacked , and even silent sisters raped. bodies of holy men are piling up in the streets. the high sparrow admits that wars make men obey the sword more than the gods. cersei points out that before the targaryens , the military order known as the faith militant dispensed the justice of the seven. the high septon is confused , as the targaryens disbanded the faith militant over two centuries ago. cersei explains that , as part of the new alliance she hopes to build between the crown and the faith , she will tell her son to repeal the law and allow the faith militant to be reestablished and re armed an army whose purpose is to defend the faith , holy men , and the smallfolk and which will incidentally be turned against the crown's enemies. she then advises him that there is a great sinner in their midst who has been shielded by gold and power. the high sparrow replies with a wish for the father to judge him justly.
the new faith militant storm the streets of king's landing , attacking taverns , brothels , and street vendors selling idols from other religions. the city watch look on , helpless , and do not intervene. they ransack littlefinger's brothel , dragging prostitutes like marei out into the street by their hair. olyvar is struck and ignored as they barge in he then sees that in another room they have singled out a man having sex with one of the male prostitutes , and approach him with a knife. olyvar flees.
 tommen attempts to have his brother in law loras released , but fails.
as a sign of their zealotry , the faith militant have the seven pointed star symbol of the faith carved into their foreheads including lancel , who leads a squad of the faith militant to apprehend loras tyrell while he is sparring in the practice yard. lancel proclaims that loras' sexual perversions are sins against the laws of gods and men , and loras is dragged off. margaery tyrell is furious at tommen for her brother's arrest , then tries to manipulate him by weeping at how hurt she is that he let this happen to loras. tommen then goes to his mother and , briefly standing up to her , demands that loras be released at once. cersei calmly points out that she didn't arrest loras , the faith militant simply dragged him off and imprisoned him , so he should ask the high sparrow to release him. tommen naively thinks the high sparrow will simply do as he requests , so he heads to the great sept of baelor with five kingsguard and several lannister guards. the path to the great sept is blocked by the faith militant , who say that the high sparrow is praying and does not wish to be disturbed. the kingsguard request that tommen let them kill the faith militant to pass. tommen is surprised at this and does not want to risk bloodshed escalating matters particularly , shedding blood on holy ground. unsure of what to do , the mob of commoners behind him starts shouting that he is really a bastard and an abomination of incest. realizing this is not going to end well , tommen meekly withdraws back to the red keep. margaery is even more upset at how ineffectual young tommen was , so she leaves saying that she is going to bring her grandmother olenna back to the capital to deal with this.
i.
 in dorne.
jaime lannister and ser bronn are on a pentoshi merchant ship , which is headed to oldtown in the reach. they sail past tarth , off the coast of the stormlands , which jaime mistakenly identifies as estermont. the captain corrects him , stating that they are sailing through the sapphire isle , which reminds him of brienne. jaime explains to bronn that he bribed the captain to let them take a small boat to shore as they pass dorne , and they will land just outside of sunspear and the adjacent water gardens. below decks , bronn remarks on why jaime must want to go and protect princess myrcella for himself he's the one who let tyrion escape , and he hopes this will make up for that. jaime curtly says that varys did when in fact , jaime forced varys to help him free tyrion . bronn says that if jaime ever sees tyrion again jaime should give him his regards jaime angrily says that if he sees his brother again , he's going to split him in two for murdering their father tywin.
 jaime uses his metal hand to stop a blade.
bronn rows the pair ashore at dusk , though jaime can't help row with his one hand. when they awake the next morning bronn kills a snake that was near jaime's head and roasts it up for breakfast. bronn is worried that the ship's captain will subsequently spread word that a lannister is in dorne jaime says he bribed him with a large bag of gold , but bronn still worries. a mounted patrol soon comes by , however , and sees their tracks in the sand. jaime and bronn present themselves and try to pass off that they are simple travelers and their boat capsized in the night , but the ruse doesn't work , and the sentries demand that they drop their weapons so they can be taken prisoner and their identities confirmed. bronn plants his sword in the sand then quickly throws his dagger in the lead sentry's throat. jaime and bronn draw their swords and fight the rest. jaime can't fight very well left handed so bronn kills one sentry's horse in order for jaime to fight him on foot. jaime is being overpowered but catches the sentry's sword with his metal hand at the last moment. he then uses the distraction to land a killing blow to the sentry with his left hand. bronn , having finished off the other sentries , notes that they now have their horses fine dornish sand steeds , capable of running a day and a night without tiring. jaime says the bodies need to be buried so they won't raise more questions. bronn says it will take a lot of time to dig holes for them all , though jaime again points out that he can't really do much digging with one hand. annoyed , bronn then drags off the bodies to bury.
 the sand snakes torture a merchant ship captain.
meanwhile , elsewhere outside of sunspear , ellaria sand meets with three of the eight sand snakes , her lover oberyn martell's bastard daughters. obara sand , the eldest , is the daughter of a peasant nymeria sand commonly called nym is the daughter of an eastern noblewoman the youngest of the three , tyene sand , is ellaria's own daughter. she informs them that prince doran martell will not raise dorne's armies to avenge his brother's death. they worry that they have no army to march against the lannisters , but ellaria tells them that they don't need one to start a war , all they need to do is kill cersei's daughter myrcella , currently in doran's possession.
obara then points out that they may have a problem. the pentoshi ship captain found her in planky town , and as bronn feared , he indeed tried to sell her information about jaime lannister's arrival in dorne. the sand snakes , however , were insulted that he wanted to be paid for such vital information instead of offering it freely , so they took him prisoner and tortured it out of him. nymeria uses her whip to knock a bucket over , and reveals underneath that they buried the ship's captain neck deep in the sand , with his head under a bucket full of poisonous scorpions. they realize that they are now in a race against time to see who can take myrcella from doran first jaime lannister or themselves. ellaria asks if the three girls are with her , knowing this will bring dorne into war. nymeria and tyene say yes. obara notes that when she first met oberyn , he was a man whom she had never met who one day appeared , said he was her father , and that he was taking her away from her mother. her mother wept , but oberyn said that , we all must choose our battles and the gods let us choose our weapons. he threw his spear at her feet , pointed to her mother's tears , then to his spear , and told her to choose. she chose the spear and answers ellaria that she is with her , as she chose the path of the spear and war long ago. she then throws her spear to impale the ship captain's head.
i.
 in the free cities.
tyrion is held captive by jorah.
at volantis , during the night , jorah mormont knocks out a fisherman and steals his boat , leaving with his captive tyrion lannister. later when they are at sea , tyrion urges for jorah to remove his gag. jorah will not volunteer any information about himself , but from a few observations such as the bear sigil on his armor , tyrion quickly surmises that he must be jorah mormont. he admits to tyrion that the queen he is taking him to is not cersei but daenerys. tyrion recalls from small council meetings that jorah was spying on daenerys for varys. given that he is half the world away from daenerys , he also accurately deduces that she must have found out he was spying on her and had him exiled and therefore , he kidnapped tyrion in the hope that presenting him as a gift to daenerys will get him back in her favor. tyrion laughs aloud at his situation , informing jorah that he was already heading to meet daenerys , so this is a waste of a kidnapping. tyrion also points out that there is no guarantee this will assuage daenerys , and it is just as likely she will remain angry at jorah , and welcome himself as an ally. jorah smacks tyrion across the face , quieting him down.
a.
 at the wall.
melisandre seduces jon.
jon snow trains recruits in the practice yard of castle black , as stannis baratheon and his wife selyse watch , along with their daughter shireen. selyse is worried that stannis wishes jon was his son , because she gave him only stillbirths and weakness , but he says that wasn't her fault. melisandre joins them and appears to quite firmly take stannis's side , declaring that the lord of light doesn't care about shireen's greyscale disfigurement , and this doesn't change the fact that she has her father's blood. when selyse departs , melisandre discusses the coming battle to take winterfell from the boltons. she asks if stannis intends to leave her behind as he did at the blackwater , but stannis assures her he won't this time.
as the new lord commander , jon goes over paperwork with samwell tarly , letters they have received from minor houses offering up a handful of new recruits. jon balks when samwell hands him a request letter for roose bolton , saying he killed his brother robb. sam points out that roose bolton is now the warden of the north , and he has the most recruits to send them much more than the pittances offered by the other minor houses jon has never even heard of. he reminds jon that the night's watch has sworn an oath of political neutrality. with disgust , jon reluctantly signs the letter to the boltons.
as sam departs , melisandre enters. she entreats him to assist stannis in retaking winterfell , pointing out that even if he doesn't become a stark , his familiarity with the castle could win them the battle. she also acknowledges that there is a greater war at stake , and asks jon if he is on the side of life or death , undoing her dress and straddling him as she does so. she encourages snow to take her , as the lord of light made humans male and female for a reason although clearly tempted , jon refuses , citing his vows , and the fact that stannis wouldn't approve to which melisandre suggests they not tell him . when melisandre points out that he broke his vows once before , snow acknowledges that he still feels for his deceased love. melisandre adjusts her dress and leaves , but not before uttering the words the new lord commander thought he'd never hear again you know nothing , jon snow.
later , stannis is in his chambers at castle black working on other letters , and shireen enters. stannis begins to apologise for dragging her along on campaign with him , as castle black is hardly a place for a child , but shireen cuts him off she is happy to have come , having expected to be left at dragonstone , as selyse had made it clear she wanted. shireen asks her father if he is ashamed of her because of her deformity stannis gets up from his table and explains that not long after shireen was born , a dornish trader arrived on dragonstone and , having heard of shireen's birth , gave a wooden doll as a gift for the newborn girl. unfortunately , the doll was contaminated with greyscale , and by the time that was discovered , shireen had already contracted the disease. everyone claimed shireen would die of it sooner or later , and urged stannis to send her to the ruins of valyria to live out her days with the stone men before the disease infected the rest of the castle stannis says he told them all to go to hell and summoned every healer , apothecary and maester he could to save shireen. stannis insists that shireen is his daughter and he would not send her away because she belonged with her family. shireen , overjoyed at her father's declaration , runs over and gives him a hug which , after an awkward pause , stannis returns.
i.
 in the north.
sansa visits the tombs of her family.
at winterfell , sansa stark takes the opportunity to visit her family's underground crypts. she comes to the tomb and statue of her aunt lyanna stark and finds the feather token that robert baratheon left there years ago when he visited the castle . petyr baelish arrives and says he thought he'd find her there. sansa remarks that her father , eddard stark , never talked about lyanna , but she would at times find him down in the crypts lighting candles at her tomb. sansa never knew lyanna because she died before she was born , but she notes that people say she was beautiful.
littlefinger says that he actually saw lyanna once years ago , and she was as beautiful as everyone says. back when he was a boy living with sansa's mother's family , the old lord whent of harrenhal held a massive tournament every notable figure of the time came from across westeros the mad king , crown prince rhaegar targaryen , robert baratheon , lyanna stark , everyone. lyanna had already been publicly betrothed to robert at the time. baelish remembers how awed he was , a boy from nowhere and with no significant holdings , to see all of these living legends gathered in one place. in the final tilt , prince rhaegar rode against ser barristan selmy. rhaegar won and the entire crowd erupted in cheers only to suddenly drop dead silent when rhaegar rode right past his wife , elia martell , to lay the victor's crown made of blue winter roses in lyanna's lap. not long afterwards , rhaegar made off with lyanna , sparking off robert's rebellion which overthrew the targaryen dynasty. littlefinger wonders how many thousands died because rhaegar chose lyanna to which sansa says that he chose her , then kidnapped and raped her. baelish gives her a wry look and moves on to another part of the crypts.
sansa notices that littlefinger is wearing riding clothes , and he explains that he is heading back to king's landing , because cersei sent a letter requesting his presence and it would be best not to make her suspicious by refusing to come. sansa will be alone with the boltons but he explains his plan to her stannis will have to attack the boltons soon if he is to beat the winter snows , and he bets that stannis will probably win , because he is one of the best military commanders in all of westeros , and the boltons will be outnumbered by stannis , as the other northern houses would be quick to betray their liege lord. stannis will then make sansa the new ruler of the north , as the last known surviving stark heir and in memory of her father eddard's support for stannis. sansa asks what will happen on the off chance that stannis gets killed , and littlefinger explains that marrying ramsay bolton now will at least leave sansa in a position to insinuate herself among the boltons and help destroy them from within in future plans. either way , sansa will be littlefinger's powerful ally in the north. littlefinger kisses sansa on the lips , and departs.
i.
 in meereen.
dany speaks with ser barristan.
in meereen , daenerys targaryen is looking down on the streets below from her royal apartments in the great pyramid , and ser barristan selmy also brings up rhaegar targaryen. he says that the city's inhabitants always seem happy from such a distance , but rhaegar actually liked to leave the red keep and mingle with the common people on the streets. barristan accompanied him often to guard him , and says that rhaegar liked to sing to people. he was a great singer , so he would find a place on one of the streets just like any public minstrel and sing. he liked to see how much money he could make , and everyone enjoyed his singing , so he often made quite a lot. daenerys is surprised , because her brother viserys only told her that rhaegar was a great killer. .
 an injured grey worm continues to fight the sons of the harpy.
barristan scoffs that rhaegar was a great warrior but never enjoyed killing , he was a gentle man who enjoyed singing. she asks what they did with all the money , and barristan says that they did all sorts of things sometimes they just gave it to the next minstrel on the road , once rhaegar gave it all to an orphanage in the slums of flea bottom , and one time they spent it to get horribly drunk. daario naharis then comes to say that the day's supplicants are waiting in the throne room , chief among them hizdahr zo loraq. aware of his dislike of politics , daenerys asks if barristan wants to attend her in the throne room after being assured that daario has her back , she gives him the day off , cheerfully telling him to make some music in the city below.
hizdahr again beseeches daenerys to reopen the fighting pits of meereen , because today is the traditional beginning of the fighting season. daenerys again refuses , but hizdahr rationally argues that the fighting pits provide a great spectacle that has always been enjoyed by both the slave masters and slaves , and is one of the few things that can bring the city together. bringing back this major tradition will not instantly solve all of her problems , he concedes , but it would be a start at mending together her subjects.
 barristan runs towards danger.
as he speaks , the sons of the harpy are already mounting a series of large scale attacks in the streets. a meereenese prostitute helps them distract and kill some of the second sons , and when a patrol of unsullied arrives , she feigns fear and directs them into a trap by pointing that the sons of the harpy ran into a narrow alleyway. the unsullied give chase , only to be surrounded by a much larger number of the sons of the harpy. brutal fighting rages throughout the streets of meereen. grey worm is among the ambushed unsullied he kills many attackers , though he loses his helmet , is slashed in the leg , and is stabbed in his side. grey worm pulls the dagger out of himself , stabs a foe in the throat with it , and keeps fighting , though his wounds slow him considerably. most of the sons of the harpy are dead but they outnumber the unsullied so much to begin with that only grey worm is left. just then , ser barristan arrives and saves grey worm by drawing the attention of the remaining rebels. he takes on eight sons of the harpy and defeats them all , save for the last one , who stabs him in the belly. he falls to his knees and just as his attacker is about to slit his throat , grey worm takes him out by shoving his spear into his back. grey worm staggers over barristan , but he has lost consciousness. severely wounded , grey worm then slumps down to the floor next to him.
 sons of the harpy is the fourth episode of the fifth season of game of thrones. it is the forty fourth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 3 , 2015. it was written by dave hill , and directed by mark mylod.
the faith militant grow increasingly aggressive jaime and bronn head south ellaria and the sand snakes vow vengeance.

<Kill the Boy>

 in meereen.
missandei daenerys watches on as her dragons set a head of great family on fire and proceed to eat him. watches over the wounded grey worm , who is still unconscious from his wounds sustained by the sons of the harpy. daenerys and daario naharis wake over the deceased ser barristan selmy. hizdahr zo loraq enters to extend his condolences. daario suggests pulling back around the pyramid to use it as a base from which to eradicate the sons of the harpy. daenerys instead opts for rounding up the leaders of each great family in meereen , including hizdahr. the leaders are brought to the catacombs where rhaegal and viserion are chained up. daenerys's unsullied push the leaders slowly towards the two dragons , who can be heard growling from the darkness. daenerys states that good mothers do not give up on their children , they discipline them if needed , but never give up on them. she nods to daario to push one of the leaders further forward. a stream of fire coming from rhaegal sets the man aflame before he is torn apart and eaten by both dragons. daenerys suggests that the dragons may determine the innocence of the captives and touches hizdahr's back as if she wanted to push him but then she pretends she wants not to overfeed the dragons and lets the rest of the men be led away.
grey worm wakes up later with missandei sitting beside him. he asks if barristan selmy survived the attack by the sons of the harpy but missandei shakes her head. grey worm thinks he has failed ser barristan , his men and daenerys a claim missandei denies. missandei tells him he shouldn't be ashamed for being wounded given that he was ambushed and outnumbered , but grey worm says he is ashamed that he was afraid when he was stabbed. missandei says that everyone fears death. however , grey worm says it isn't death he fears , it is the thought of never getting to see missandei again that terrified him. missandei is noticeably touched and kisses grey worm.
daenerys asks missandei whether she should reopen the fighting pits. missandei only says that she has seen daenerys listening to her counselors when her own experience was lacking and ignoring them when she thought they were wrong. daenerys visits the imprisoned hizdahr , who begs for his life. daenerys tells him she has decided to reopen the fighting pits , but only for free men. she also says that she will marry the head of an ancient family of meereen to forge a bond with the people of the city , and that she luckily has one of them on his knees already. she leaves a very confused hizdahr to ponder that he will live , and that he will soon be meereen's prince consort.
a.
 at the wall.
maester aemon sam reads a note from slaver's bay to maester aemon updating him on daenerys's situation. sam praises daenerys's courage but maester aemon worries about his great niece's safety because she is all alone , under siege , and with hardly anyone to guide her , while her last relation is useless and dying thousands of miles away. jon snow enters to speak with aemon in private. he needs the maester's advice on a controversial order that many of the night's watch will hate him for. aemon tells jon that half the men at castle black already hate him , but that he should trust in his command. he says that jon will not enjoy being lord commander , but with luck , he may find the strength to do what needs to be done. jon is told to kill the boy , and let the man be born.
jon then meets with tormund giantsbane and offers to forge an alliance with the wildlings , bidding tormund to go north of the wall and rally them all. he will open the gates for them and give them land south of the wall in which to settle. in return , the wildlings will fight alongside the night s watch when white walkers arrive. tormund is initially reluctant and to convince him , jon unlocks his chains , freeing him. tormund relents , and reveals that most of the wildlings are up at hardhome. jon offers him horses and men to bring the wildlings back. tormund tells him that they ll need ships to bring his people back , which jon says he ll borrow from stannis. tormund's final condition is that jon accompany him as a guarantee that the wildlings will not fall prey to any traps set by the night's watch.
the men of the night s watch do not take news of the alliance well , citing the countless innocent lives lost due to the wildlings. even jon s friend edd rejects this decision , stating that the wildlings killed their friends grenn and pyp. nevertheless , jon decides to go ahead with his plan. in the library , sam tells gilly about his wish to go to citadel and become a maester before he was sent to the night s watch , when stannis baratheon walks in. stannis reminisces about how sam s father , randyll tarly , defeated robert baratheon in the battle of ashford. stannis wants to know how sam killed the white walker and sam tells him how he did it with a dagger made of dragonglass. stannis muses that it is abundantly available in dragonstone. sam has been researching dragonglass and how it can kill white walkers , but has yet to come up with anything. stannis tells him to continue his research and leaves.
later , stannis tells ser davos that they will march toward winterfell the next morning. davos suggests waiting until jon returns with the wildlings , but stannis decides against it , as any delay improves the boltons' chances. he also wants to take selyse and shireen with them , as he does not think they will be safe at the wall , surrounded by criminals. the next morning , stannis s army , with stannis and melisandre at its head , starts its journey to winterfell.
i.
 in the north.
brienne of tarth and podrick payne , still pursuing sansa stark , arrive at an inn near winterfell. podrick thinks that sansa may be better off at winterfell now that she is far away from the lannisters , but brienne believes that sansa will not be safe around the people who murdered her mother and brother the boltons. their conversation is interrupted by a servant. correctly suspecting that he is still loyal to the starks , brienne tells of her allegiance to catelyn stark and convinces the servant to get a message through to sansa her presence still being something of a secret , the old servant seems to gain strength from the idea of a surviving stark.
in winterfell , ramsay bolton and his bedwarmer myranda discuss ramsay s upcoming marriage to sansa. myranda admits her jealousy of sansa , especially since he had promised to marry myranda back when he was a bastard. ramsay disregards myranda s insecurities , causing myranda to proclaim that perhaps she will marry too. ramsay is angered and violently tells her that she is his and she is not going anywhere unless she continues to bore him with her jealousy. he threateningly reminds her what he does to people who bore him , and hearing this myranda swears never to bore him again.
meanwhile , sansa s maid carries a message to her. consoling sansa that she still has allies in the north , she tells sansa to light a candle in the highest window of the broken tower if she ever needs help. as sansa wanders around the castle , coming to the tower where jaime lannister pushed her brother brandon out of the window , she runs into myranda. myranda puts on a friendly fa ade , talking to sansa about her mother s demise. to help sansa remember how things used to be , myranda leads sansa down to the kennels , where she finds reek , formerly theon greyjoy , asleep in one of the cages. awoken by sansa s arrival , he just shakes his head , when sansa calls him theon. he warns her that she shouldn't be down there. seeing reek in such a pitiful condition , sansa angrily storms away.
 sansa at the family dinner. as reek helps ramsay get ready for dinner , he confesses to ramsay that earlier that day , sansa saw him in his cage. ramsay , for his own amusement , makes it seem as though he s going to punish reek severely , before simply forgiving him. at dinner , ramsay is initially well behaved , toasting his wedding to sansa , but is soon back to his old ways as he forces reek to apologize to sansa for murdering bran and rickon. with much difficulty , reek finally mutters an apology. ramsay then suggests that reek be the one to give sansa away at the wedding , since he is the closest thing sansa has to kin and roose bolton accepts the suggestion. seeing that ramsay is getting complacent , however , roose has walda announce that she is pregnant with a boy. ramsay is clearly distressed by the news , which in turn delights sansa.
 roose tells ramsay about his conception.
after dinner , ramsay expresses his distress at the possibility of the unborn child jeopardizing his claim on the north. roose reprimands his son for disgracing himself at dinner but seemingly dismisses his concern. he then shares the story of ramsay s birth roose raped a miller s wife , who had married without his consent , after hanging her husband. a year later , she showed up with ramsay , claiming that the baby was his. roose nearly had her whipped and the baby drowned , but when roose laid eyes upon ramsay , he was convinced that he was his son and decided to keep him. he then reveals to ramsay that stannis has an army at castle black. stannis plans to take the iron throne and the road to king s landing passes through winterfell , which means that stannis also intends to take the north. he wants ramsay s help in defeating stannis , and ramsay agrees.
o.
 old valyria.
tyrion and jorah are attacked by the stonemen.
as jorah and tyrion continue their journey to meereen , and following jorah's violent reaction to a previous conversation , tyrion tries to civilize their relationship and asks where they are. as jorah stands up to look at the foggy ruins on the horizon , tyrion deduces that they are going to pass through the remains of old valyria , a shorter route to meereen and one which pirates will avoid because of valyria's reputation. tyrion is apprehensive , but still excited to see the ruins of what was once the greatest civilization in the world.
as they catch glimpses of domes , towers and aqueducts , tyrion recites a poem about the doom of valyria , with jorah joining in at the end. suddenly , through the fog , they see drogon fly into view. although he had been hearing about the dragons for some time , tyrion is still utterly gobsmacked to see one in person. jorah is struck silent too , as drogon is even bigger and more majestic than when he left. so distracted are they that they don't notice when the statues on a nearby aqueduct stand up and leap at the boat they are stone men victims of greyscale so far gone that they have been sent to live out the rest of their lives in quarantine in the ruins. jorah tells tyrion not to let them touch him and fights them off. however , as tyrion is tied up , he is cornered at one end of the boat with a stone man advancing on him while jorah battles more at the other end. just before the stone man is able to grab him , tyrion rolls off of the boat and into the water to escape , where he is then pulled down by more stone men under the water.
an undetermined amount of time later , tyrion wakes up and finds himself on a shore , dragged out of the water by jorah. after confirming to each other that they had not been touched by the stone men , jorah tells tyrion that he hopes to find a fishing village and get a boat soon , otherwise they'll have to walk all the way around slaver's bay to eventually reach meereen. tyrion seems up for it and jorah goes to look for firewood so they can make camp. however , once out of tyrion's view , he pulls back his sleeve to inspect the cracked skin on his wrist , confirming that he had been infected with greyscale during the fight with the stone men. he looks at tyrion and then glances in the direction of meereen , knowing that even if he dies , he needs to get tyrion to daenerys.
 kill the boy is the fifth episode of the fifth season of game of thrones. it is the forty fifth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 10 , 2015. it was written by bryan cogman and directed by jeremy podeswa.
dany makes a difficult decision in meereen. jon recruits the help of an unexpected ally. brienne searches for sansa. theon remains under ramsay's control.

<Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken>

 in braavos.
arya continues her training with the faceless men. she cleans a corpse methodically , which is then taken away by two men. arya is obviously curious about what is on the other side of the door through which the corpse was taken. arya is about to walk through the door when the waif obstructs her path and latches the door. arya wants to know what happens to the bodies she scrubs clean , but the waif tells her that she will know when the time is right. frustrated at the lack of answers , arya demands to play the game of faces. the waif tells her that arya has already tried playing the game but failed. she again asks arya who she is , to which arya replies that she is no one. the waif simply tells arya to get back to work and is about to walk away when arya asks her who she is. the waif tells arya a story about how she was the only daughter of a widowed lord , who remarried , producing another daughter. her stepmother , in order to secure her own daughter s future , tried to poison her. the waif found out about this and sought out the help of the faceless men to exact her revenge. the waif then asks arya whether she believed the story , surprising arya. when arya doesn t respond , embarrassed that she bought the waif s story , the waif tells her to get back to work , hinting to arya that to pass the game of faces , arya must be able to lie convincingly. later , when arya is asleep , jaqen h'ghar comes to test arya again. this time , when he asks arya who she is , arya tells him how she came to join the faceless men , trying to slip in a few lies into the story. however , jaqen is able to tell when arya is lying and hits her with a switch whenever she does. he strikes her repeatedly when she insists she hated the hound. before he leaves , he tells her that she is lying not only to him , but to herself as well.
 arya in the hall of faces.
a grieving father brings his sickly daughter to the house of black and white. he explains to arya that he has been to every healer in braavos and spent every penny he had. he tells her that his daughter is suffering and needs to find peace. arya sits besides the girl and tells her a short false story , about how she was sick too , but her father brought her here and when she drank from the temple's well , she was healed. this persuades the sickly girl to drink the poisoned water from the well. the water gives the peace of death to the sickly girl , and arya , having successfully proven that she can lie , is brought to the hall of faces with jaqen h'ghar , a great underground chamber that houses thousands of faces. all the faces had been taken from the corpses that the acolytes wash in the temple. the faceless man then asks arya if she is ready to give up who she is to become no one . after a moment of silence , he then states that she is not ready to become no one she is too attached to her past as a stark , but that she is ready to become someone else .
i.
 in slaver's bay.
jorah and tyrion in slaver's bay.
on the western side of slaver's bay , tyrion lannister and jorah mormont are still making their way to meereen on the far opposite eastern side of the region on foot , after losing their boat passing through the smoking sea and the ruins of old valyria. tyrion is annoyed that they didn't find any villages to steal a boat or supplies from as jorah had hoped , so they're slowly walking and only have berries and roots to eat. the topic of just why tyrion was even in volantis comes up , and tyrion is surprised that jorah did not ask earlier he explains that he actually fled from westeros because he killed his own father tywin. he says he did it because his father tried to have him executed for a crime he didn't commit , and then he found his father screwing the woman he loved jorah nods , as this seems as likely a motivation for kinslaying as any. tyrion then says that despite how miserable jorah is now , at least he can say that he had a good father. jorah asks how he could have known his father jeor mormont , but tyrion explains he visited the wall once and met him he was a great leader who seemed to genuinely care about all of his men , a rare thing in the world , but now as the eulogy for night's watch members goes , the world will not see his like again. jorah is shocked to realize he means that his father is dead. tyrion becomes apologetic and says he thought that jorah knew already. jorah asks how he died tyrion says he only knows the report he heard , which said that his father led an expedition beyond the wall , but there was a mutiny , and jeor was murdered by his own men. jorah processes this in silent grief , then changes the subject by saying that they have to keep moving.
as they walk , tyrion asks why jorah would support daenerys targaryen and how she would be better than any other rulers , or why westeros would even support her , given that her father was the mad king. jorah explains that he never used to believe in things like destiny and was very cynical , but after seeing daenerys emerge from the flames unharmed with baby dragons , he believes in her now , and the iron throne is hers by right. tyrion remains skeptical that this doesn't automatically mean she will be a good queen , given that the targaryens were famous for going insane , just like daenerys's own father.
spotting a slaver ship in the distance , jorah pulls tyrion to the ground. however , the pair has already been spotted before they start hiding , and the slavers emerge from the trees behind them and take them captive. the lead slaver , malko , intends to return them back to their destination in volantis. tyrion , however , manages to successfully persuade him that jorah is one of the most skilled knights in westeros , and would fetch a better price being sold to the fighting pits in meereen , which have just reopened. though not in the circumstances they hoped , tyrion and jorah are once again quickly heading towards meereen and queen daenerys.
i.
 in dorne.
bronn and jaime approach the water gardens , wearing martell disguises from the soldiers they killed. bronn wonders what jaime will do once they get inside and find myrcella , to which jaime replies that he likes to improvise bronn sarcastically remarks that explains the golden hand. meanwhile , ellaria sand and the sand snakes are already inside the gardens. ellaria sends them out to abduct myrcella , telling them to do it for oberyn.
myrcella herself is enjoying another stroll with her betrothed , trystane martell , trystane's father prince doran martell and his bodyguard areo hotah watch from above. doran comments that they look lovely together , but that they don't realize how dangerous their betrothal is , and that he and areo must protect them. doran asks if areo remembers how to uses his longaxe , and areo assures him that he does.
 myrcella and her intended trystane martell jaime and bronn infiltrate the water gardens and soon come upon myrcella kissing trystane. jaime tries to convince myrcella to come with him , but trystane interferes , suspicious of the bloodstains on bronn and jaime's dornish robes. when trystane tries to draw his sword , bronn quickly knocks him down , to myrcella's horror. jaime tries to lead her away , but they are suddenly attacked by the sand snakes. bronn fights against tyene and nymeria , while obara attacks jaime with her spear , driving him away from myrcella. obara orders nym to break away from bronn and take myrcella prisoner , but as nym tries to pull her away , they are cut off by areo and prince doran's guards , who surround them and force them all to drop their weapons. jaime , bronn , ellaria and the sand snakes are all taken into custody.
i.
 in king's landing.
petyr baelish arrives in king s landing and is on his way to meet cersei when he is confronted by brother lancel and some other sparrows. lancel warns baelish that they have purged king's landing of its corrupt ways , and the new king s landing will not tolerate his prostitution business. baelish dismisses these threats.
cersei , meeting with baelish , continues to deny her involvement in loras tyrell s arrest by the faith militant. baelish is not fooled and warns that house tyrell will not tolerate this insult. cersei claims that she is the insulted one since ser loras , who was promised to her , prefers the company of men. cersei then explains why she summoned baelish she is suspicious where his loyalties truly lie and asks him whether she can rely on the the vale to fight for the throne if the time comes. baelish assures her that young robin heeds his advice and he will always counsel loyalty to the throne. baelish then reveals that sansa is back in winterfell , where roose bolton has arranged for her to marry ramsay. cersei is infuriated by the boltons betrayal. to add fuel to the fire , baelish adds that marrying the last remaining stark gives the boltons a stronger hold over the north than an alliance with a hated southern house. baelish counsels patience and suggests letting the boltons and stannis fight each other , and when the victor is still recovering from the battle , step in and defeat him. he suggests that cersei s uncle kevan lannister muster a force or have jaime lannister lead an army to the north. cersei contemptuously claims that her uncle doesn t have the courage to lead an army , while jaime is away on a sensitive diplomatic mission. baelish proposes that the soldiers of the vale could fight instead but cersei is unsure of baelish s ability to lead an army. baelish convinces her , stating that he lives to serve . all baelish wants in return is to be named warden of the north. cersei agrees to talk to the king about this.
olenna tyrell returns to king s landing after learning of her grandson s arrest. olenna tries to talks cersei into releasing loras. cersei sticks to her claim that it was the faith militant who arrested loras and she had nothing to do with it. olenna warns cersei that her actions have endangered the lannister tyrell alliance the very alliance that is supplying the capital with food. cersei informs olenna that the high septon has called for a preliminary hearing to determine whether the charges against loras have merit and expresses confidence that loras will be acquitted.
 margaery is arrested.
the high sparrow interrogates loras first , who refutes the accusations against him. he then questions margaery , who also denies any knowledge of it. the high sparrow then calls in olyvar , in character as loras s squire , who claims that the accusations against loras are in fact true. olyvar also admits that margaery walked in on them once , but didn t seem surprised. to support his testimony , olyvar tells the high sparrow of a birthmark loras has that is shaped like dorne , much to loras' shock and fury. deciding that this is more than enough evidence for a trial , the high sparrow has loras arrested. since margaery bore false witness before the gods , she is arrested too. as margaery is forcefully dragged away , she calls out for tommen , paralyzed with indecision , while olenna sadly regards cersei's barely contained smug expression.
i.
 in the north.
at winterfell , sansa is joined by myranda in her room. she offers to help sansa take a bath , so she is presentable to ramsay during the wedding. while she is washing sansa's back , myranda mentions three other girls whom ramsay had been with , and how he ultimately victimized them after a while because they bored him. knowing that myranda is trying to frighten her , sansa startles myranda by revealing that she knows about her relationship with ramsay. she coolly tells myranda that she is a stark of winterfell and will not be intimidated by the likes of her , and dismisses her to finish her bath herself , though she is visibly shaken by myranda's story.
 sansa is wed. later , when reek comes to fetch sansa for the wedding , she refuses to hold reek s arm , even after he pleads with her to do so , saying that ramsay will punish him if she doesn t. sansa coldly asks if he thinks she cares what ramsay does to him , and strides past him. then , in front of the godswood , reek gives sansa away to ramsay who actually allows reek to call himself theon greyjoy during the wedding ceremony , which is officiated by roose bolton and attended by many northern lords. after retreating to the bedroom , ramsay orders sansa to take her clothes off. reek is about to leave but ramsay tells him he must stay. ramsay quips to reek , you grew up with her as a girl , now watch her become a woman. annoyed by sansa's hesitance , he angrily rips open the back of her dress and pushes her face down over the side of the bed. as he unbuckles his clothes , sansa obediently remains still but begins crying softly. reek is visibly distraught and begins silently crying himself , as ramsay proceeds to rape her , and forcefully consummate their marriage.
 unbowed , unbent , unbroken is the sixth episode of the fifth season of game of thrones. it is the forty sixth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 17 , 2015. it was written by bryan cogman and directed by jeremy podeswa.
arya trains. jorah and tyrion run into slavers. trystane and myrcella make plans. jaime and bronn reach their destination. the sand snakes attack.

<The Gift>

 at the wall.
jon departs for hardhome with tormund and a group of rangers , after speaking with ser alliser thorne and sam. before they leave , sam gives jon some of his dragonglass weapons , reminding him of their use against the white walkers. afterward , sam and gilly visit maester aemon , who is bedridden and dying from old age. gilly brings her baby little sam for him to hold and cheer him up a little. aemon happily notes that her son has a laugh just like his little brother egg king aegon v had when he was a baby. in a moment of clarity , aemon gravely warns gilly that she and her son must leave the wall while they still can , before winter comes and the white walkers with it . aemon's condition steadily deteriorates during the night , and he fades in and out of consciousness. near the end he wakes up delirious from a dream , still lost in memory from his youth he calls out to his brother egg , and says that he had a strange dream that he was an old man. aemon passes away soon afterwards.
 samwell loses his virginity with gilly.
in the courtyard of castle black , sam eulogizes aemon before lighting his funeral pyre , declaring for all to hear that he was the blood of the dragon but now his watch is ended. ser alliser whispers that sam's friends are abandoning him one by one. afterward , gilly is attacked in the dining hall by two brothers , but sam and jon's direwolf , ghost , come to her rescue. sam is badly beaten , and gilly tends to his injuries. still in grief at aemon's death and impressed by sam defending her , gilly climbs on top of him and they have sex.
i.
 in the north.
at winterfell , reek brings food to sansa. she begs him for help , telling him how she has been locked in her bedchamber since her wedding and is visited by ramsay every night and he forces himself on her. reek simply tells her to obey ramsay or else he would do worse things to her. sansa asks what ramsay did to reek to break him to such an extent , but he can't bring himself to tell her. he tries to leave but sansa grabs and reminds him that he betrayed her family , making reek apologize profusely. sansa informs him that her family still has allies in the north and tells him to light a candle at the top of the broken tower which will signal them that she is in danger. when reek refuses to do it , sansa reminds him of his true name , theon greyjoy , and makes him promise that he'll help her. reek hesitantly agrees. he trudges through the snow with the candle , up a flight of stairs and into ramsay s room.
later , sansa is taken to see ramsay on the ramparts , which are still under construction. while he is distracted , sansa grabs a workman's tool lying on a nearby barrel and pockets it. ramsay speaks of his thoughts on how they will easily defeat stannis's army since their soldiers , unlike stannis's , are trained to fight in the snow , and how he'll one day be the lord of winterfell and the warden of the north.
sansa reminds him of the unborn baby , who , if a boy , will have a stronger claim on the north since he'll be a true born. ramsay tells her that he is roose bolton's eldest son , legitimized by the king , who sansa reminds him is another bastard. ramsay is obviously angered by sansa's remarks , but doesn't act on it , simply stating that bastards can rise in the world too , informing her of jon's appointment as lord commander of the night's watch. ramsay then brings up the reason why he summoned her , and shows her the crucified and partly flayed corpse of the old woman who promised to help sansa if she lit a candle in the broken tower. ramsay then reveals to sansa that reek , who seems miserable to have squashed sansa's only hope of an escape , came to him and told him everything. sansa chokes back tears as a gleeful ramsay orders his men to take her back to her chamber. meanwhile , brienne stares intently at winterfell castle from her room in the inn , waiting for the sign to rescue sansa.
stannis's troops make camp during a violent snowstorm. davos seaworth meets with stannis and informs him that forty horses died the previous night and more will die come sunset. the stormcrows , a sellsword company , have fled in the night. davos thinks that they should go back to castle black and wait out the weather since they do not have enough food , but stannis stubbornly tells him that they will not retreat to castle black because he will not risk being known as the king who ran . as winter will soon arrive , they also run the risk of being stuck at castle black for years , during which the boltons will regain their strength. seeing no other way to convince stannis otherwise , davos leaves.
stannis asks melisandre if she is sure of their victory at winterfell. melisandre assures him , reminding him that he also saw the vision of his victory in the flames , but stannis is not so sure what he saw anymore. melisandre reassures him that her visions will come true , but also states that a sacrifice , one with king's blood , must be made in order to ensure their victory , implying that they sacrifice shireen. stannis is infuriated by the suggestion and orders her to leave.
i.
 in dorne.
prince doran has areo hotah bring myrcella to jaime in the quarters where he is confined , as jaime is concerned for her safety. displaying a somewhat more critical mind than her brothers , myrcella is suspicious about jaime's diplomatic mission to bring her back to king's landing , to which jaime only replies that there are complicated matters involved. myrcella flatly refuses to return with him , stating her intent to marry trystane.
bronn is singing the dornishman's wife in his jail cell , while in the adjoining cell , the sand snakes listen with a mix of annoyance from obara and nymeria and amusement from tyene. after he finishes , the two parties trade barbs , and tyene inquires about bronn's arm , which she cut with her daggers during their earlier fight , with bronn brushing it off as a new scar . the two begin to talk about tyene's beauty , which bronn dismisses until she begins to disrobe. bronn stares intently , and begins to change his mind about her. tyene once again inquires about his arm , and then his head , at which point bronn's nose starts bleeding and his vision blurs.
bronn collapses and tries to play off his sudden illness , but tyene reveals that her daggers were coated with a slow acting poison called the long farewell , and her attempts to seduce bronn were to get his heart pumping faster , thereby allowing the poison to act quicker. she points to an ampoule on her necklace , which contains the antidote , but only offers to give it to bronn on the condition that he agrees that she is the most beautiful woman in the world. growing weaker , bronn barely manages to reply affirmatively , and she tosses the ampoule to a relieved bronn. tyene smiles smugly at him and remarks that she finds him handsome as well , before re robing and sitting down next to her mildly amused half sisters.
i.
 in king's landing.
in the great sept of baelor , lady olenna meets with the high sparrow to discuss the imprisonment of her grandchildren , ser loras and queen margaery. although they briefly bond over the infirmities of age , she demands that he release them and he declines , stating they will be punished for their crimes. the high sparrow tells her that the gods' laws must be applied to everyone equally. olenna first tries to bribe him , but learning that he cannot be bought , threatens to end the tyrell support for the capital by ending shipments of food. again the high sparrow is unfazed , remarking that the nobility of westeros have forgotten they are outnumbered by the common folk and tells olenna to ponder what happens when the many stop fearing the few. returning to her palanquin , olenna receives a letter bearing petyr baelish's seal.
meanwhile , in the red keep , king tommen rails over his inability to help margaery. he wants to start a war for margaery , declaring his love for her to a dumbstruck cersei. to maintain control of the situation , she offers to speak with the high sparrow for him and advocate for margaery and loras's release. although clearly suspicious , the still overwhelmed tommen agrees.
littlefinger meets with olenna in his ransacked brothel , where they share a tense conversation. olenna reminds him of the role they both played in joffrey's murder , and that , should her house fall , she will have no reason to keep his involvement a secret. littlefinger explains why he returned to king's landing he dared not refuse cersei's summons , and was obliged to give her information. he tells olenna that he will give her the same thing he gave cersei a handsome young man implied , in this instance , to be lancel.
in the sept's cells , cersei meets with margaery and brings her food but margaery refuses , revealing that she knows her mother in law is responsible for having her and loras imprisoned. cersei , fearful of being overheard , denies this. margaery mocks cersei for her unconvincing lies of trying to save her , going as far as to say that while she knows how to lie and scheme , she doesn't understand innocence and decency , which margaery suspects is why tommen loves her , margaery , and was willing to send cersei back to casterly rock. cersei , concealing her fury , tells margaery her trial will soon begin and that her son needs his mother more than ever. margaery throws the stew at cersei , and yells at her to get out. cersei leaves the cell , smiling smugly at margaery.
on her way out , a still gleeful cersei meets with the high sparrow in a chapel that predates the great sept. the pair briefly discuss the legal process that margaery and loras will face. as the conversation goes on , however , it's clear that the high sparrow is about to turn the tables on cersei. when brother lancel appears , cersei realizes what is about to happen , and her triumphant smile begins to crack. the high sparrow has an irate cersei taken into custody by a group of septas who ignore cersei's threats and lock her in a cell.
i.
 in meereen.
jorah is sold by malko to yezzan zo qaggaz. before yezzan leaves , tyrion convinces him that jorah and he are a team , and is also bought. in meereen , daenerys and daario discuss her impending marriage to hizdahr zo loraq. after rejecting his suggestion that she marry him instead , daario advises her that , on the day the fighting pits are reopened , she should gather all the great , wise and good masters and kill them. dany is reluctant to do so , as she believes it will give her the reputation of a butcher , to which daario replies that all rulers are either butchers or meat .
yezzan takes his fighters to meereen , to test them in the lower pits and seek out those who are worthy to fight in the great pit of daznak. they fight in front of a reluctant daenerys , as hizdahr has convinced her that meereen's ruler occasionally makes the rounds to the lower pits ahead of the main tournament. jorah enters the pits early , upon realizing that she is watching and will be repulsed by what she's seeing , and elbows down yezzan who tried to berate him. jorah easily defeats the other fighters without killing them , impressing dany enough to prevent her from leaving. when he reveals his identity , however , her face swiftly twists into a scowl and she orders him taken away. before the unsullied can comply , jorah declares that he brought her a gift , and tyrion enters the arena and reveals his identity to the astonished queen.
 the gift is the seventh episode of the fifth season of game of thrones. it is the forty seventh episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 24 , 2015. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by miguel sapochnik.
jon prepares for conflict. sansa tries to talk to theon. brienne waits for a sign. stannis remains stubborn. jaime attempts to reconnect with family.

<Hardhome>

 in meereen.
in the throne room , daenerys ponders on what to do with tyrion and jorah. she asks tyrion why she shouldn't kill him , since the lannisters are enemies to her house. he claims to have killed both of his parents and by that he is an enemy to the lannisters as well. daenerys isn't convinced that killing one's own familiy is a good reputation for someone in her service. tyrion counters by wondering aloud if she at least is worth his service. ordered to tell her why he has come to her from the other end of the world , he explains how he learned about her own story from rumours and from varys. he says that she a lost girl born in a storm , who with virtually no assistance managed to acquire a barbarian horde , an effective army , conquer three cities , break the slave trade and hatch three dragons might be worth living for when he lost everything he had lived for until then. he adds that daenerys needs his advice despite having a powerful army and large dragons , as she lacks both political experience and practical knowledge of westeros.
she eventually agrees to spare his life , but asks what to do about ser jorah. she seems poised to fulfil her promise of killing him if she saw him again , as it would not do at all for a queen not to keep her word. tyrion defends jorah , commenting that he is clearly devoted to her and quite possibly in love with her , but also that he did not trust her enough to inform her of his mission to spy on her for king robert and that therefore he cannot be trusted to stand by her side. but , he argues , just as a queen should keep true to her oaths , she should also not kill those devoted to her.
daenerys exiles jorah from the city. contemplating his greyscale , jorah returns to yezzan zo qaggaz and offers to fight for him. he promises to lead yezzan's team to the great pit and win the tournament for the queen after that yezzan can make a fortune selling jorah on the black market.
later , tyrion and daenerys sit in her solar and have a talk about ambitions. when tyrion mentions what a horrible father tywin was , daenerys admits that she no longer has any illusions about her own father. daenerys is curious about the circumstances of tyrion's murder of tywin. he wryly promises that if she decides not to kill him then one day he will tell her , but on that day they will need a lot more wine than the large decanter they are drinking from.
they discuss the role of varys in their stories and tyrion assures daenerys he trusts him , and that he's probably the reason she wasn't killed years ago. tyrion was convinced by varys that she could be a ruler who deserves his support. when daenerys asks how he can get her what she wants , tyrion nearly rolls his eyes at her desire for the iron throne. he suggests that she might want to stay in slaver's bay and build a new kingdom for herself in meereen , complimenting her on reopening the fighting pits and her upcoming political marriage. she assures him that she will stay and help stabilize things , and make sure the slave trade stays broken , but essos is not her home. tyrion counters that no one will support her in westeros , but daenerys somewhat idealistically declares that the common people will support her. tyrion generously assumes that this will happen which it generally doesn't , but then he reminds daenerys that meereen has been in a state of chaos without the combined support of the great masters and the smallfolk , and extends this to westeros and its great houses. he notes that houses targaryen and stark are effectively dead due to the combined actions of their two terrible fathers. neither house lannister nor house baratheon of dragonstone will ever support her claim in light of their histories with the targaryens. tyrion says that leaves house tyrell who might be willing to switch sides due to cersei's recent schemes against them but that still isn't enough. daenerys stubbornly likens the great houses , including her own house targaryen , to the spokes on a wheel , one on top and then others , and on and on , crushing the commoners beneath them in their struggle for supremacy. tyrion sarcastically warns that others have dreamed of stopping the wheel , but daenerys clarifies that she plans to break it.
daenerys decides tyrion will remain as her advisor , but confiscates the wine , as a drunk is of no use to her.
 in braavos.
arya assumes the identity of lanna , a clam seller , and shows jaqen h'ghar she can convincingly become a different person , developing an elaborate and very believable backstory. the faceless man sends her , as lanna , to the harbor where she observes someone referred to as the thin man refuse a contract to insure a man's boat , leaving the man in desperate circumstances. jaqen explains the thin man's business is a sort of gamble yet he does not honor his agreements when a ship captain dies at sea , he is supposed to make good on his promise and pay the family , but he often doesn't. jaqen instructs her to kill him , and hands her a gift for the thin man a vial of poison. the waif is skeptical of arya lanna's success.
 in king's landing.
septa unella continues to urge an imprisoned cersei to confess in return for her freedom. she remains defiant , despite being obliged to drink water from the floor out of sheer thirst. qyburn visits her in her cell , and informs her that her trial will begin soon for the crimes of fornication , treason , incest , and robert's murder , all of which cersei furiously dismisses as lies. qyburn tells her that grand maester pycelle has summoned kevan lannister to serve as hand of the king. kevan has , at this point in time , already arrived , and he has refused to visit her in prison. qyburn also tells her that tommen has become reclusive , refusing to see anyone and refusing to eat in his emotional state. before leaving , he tells her the work continues on their secret project.
 in the north.
a bitter and determined sansa confronts reek about his latest betrayal. reek apologetically affirms he was helping her and that there is no escaping ramsay. he tells her that theon greyjoy tried to escape but ramsay caught him and tortured him until there was no theon left. sansa coldly expresses approval and reminds reek of the role he played in her family's downfall , and that if she could do to him what ramsay did , she would. reek shamefully admits he deserved his torture as he did terrible things , specifically killing those boys. enraged by his dismissive reference seemingly to her brothers as those boys rather than bran and rickon , sansa vehemently demands to know why they should be dead while he still breathes the air , forcing reek to finally admit that they were not in fact bran and rickon , only two farm boys. stunned by this admission , sansa's anger towards reek cools but when she presses him as to where they might have gone , calling him theon again , he breaks down and runs out the room , crying , not theon reek.
roose bolton maintains that his army must wait inside winterfell , thus starving out stannis' forces , as winterfell had enough supplies to last 6 months under siege. such conditions would cause a mutiny in the ranks of the baratheon force and break them down. ramsay , on the other hand , has a plan to defeat stannis decisively and asks his father to lend him just 20 good men.
 at the wall.
gilly continues to tend sam's wounds. olly enters with some food , having heard what happened. once gilly leaves , olly expresses concern at joining forces with the wildlings , particularly tormund , who led the raid in which his parents were killed. sam reassures olly that jon knows what he is doing , and that unless he is successful , neither the night's watch nor westeros stands a chance against the white walkers. sam explains this is a hard choice jon had to make , however unpopular , and then tells him not to worry , as jon always comes back.
 at hardhome.
jon snow and tormund giantsbane , along with other members of the night's watch and the free folk , arrive at the wildling town hardhome to convince the rest of the wildlings to join them in the upcoming war against the white walkers and their armies of wights.
insisting on never being an ally with a crow , the lord of bones insults tormund for being at the side of an enemy like jon snow. tormund seizes the lord's staff and beats his former ally to death with it. the wildling elders decide to gather in the townshall to hear out jon's proposal an alliance between the free folk and the night's watch in the face of their common enemy , the undead.
having not seen mance rayder since he was taken prisoner at the wall , the wildlings question his whereabouts. snow reluctantly informs them that he is dead and that he shot him personally with an arrow. the group is infuriated , but as they move in to kill him , tormund vouches for him , describing how rayder was about to be burned at the stake as a warning from stannis baratheon , and how snow defied stannis by ending his life quickly instead of humiliating him and making him suffer in the flames. some leaders are convinced , such as karsi and the giant wun wun , but others like the thenn warrior loboda begin to leave. jon offers them the dragonglass daggers , telling them that his friend had killed a white walker with one. the wildlings still seem unconvinced.
while approximately five thousand free folk gather to set sail to the wall , the night's watch starts gathering the dragonglass daggers in the tent. edd approaches wun wun who holds one of the daggers , examining it curiously. the giant appears unwilling to hand it over and asks edd the fuck you looking at in the giants' rudimentary form of the old tongue. edd walks away quietly , without collecting the arrowhead. suddenly , dogs begin barking and the sounds of a storm are heard. recognizing the sign of approaching white walkers , loboda orders the gates of hardhome to be shut , abandoning many of the free folk on the other side to their fate. as the storm reaches the village , the screams of the people shut outside the walls of hardhome quickly fall silent. a moment later , a large host of undead wights begin breaking through the gates and climbing over the walls. jon , tormund , loboda and karsi fight alongside others to give as many people as possible an opportunity to make it to their ships. eddison tollett , wun wun , and others are trapped inside the townhall , which is set upon by wights and catches fire in the confusion , the bag of dragonglass weapons is lost.
 the night king raises the dead wildlings into wights.
on top of a hill overlooking hardhome , several white walkers mounted on undead horses observe the battle , including the night king. noticing them , and realizing the need for dragonglass , jon and loboda go to the burning townhall , only to be confronted by a white walker warrior. while loboda faces the threat , jon snow goes for the dragonglass. loboda is quickly killed after his axe shatters immediately upon contacting the white walker's ice blade. jon just manages to grab a dragonglass dagger but is tossed aside by the white walker. jon retrieves longclaw and defends himself against the white walker and both combatants are astonished to see the valyrian steel remain intact after colliding with the white walker's blade. seizing the opportunity , jon strikes the white walker , shattering his body into fragments of ice , confirming that valyrian steel is just as lethal to them as dragonglass. the night king , watching the entire battle from a distance , seems at least mildly intrigued by this turn of events.
meanwhile , karsi fights off multiple wights before being confronted by a pack of undead children. frozen by the horror , she is unable to resist as she is mauled to death. the white walkers deploy another large host of wights , letting them hurl themselves over the cliffs above hardhome. jon , edd , tormund and the remaining defenders flee for their lives. shielded by wun wun , who throws several wights off himself and wields a burning log as a club before walking into the sea with them , they manage to get to the last remaining boat and quickly row out to a safe distance. as jon and the others look on in horror , the night king raises his arms triumphantly all around it , the slain wildlings rise up as undead wights , including karsi. the night king and his army continue to stare in silence as they retreat.
 hardhome is the eighth episode of the fifth season of game of thrones. it is the forty eighth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 31 , 2015. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by miguel sapochnik.
arya makes progress in her training. sansa confronts an old friend. cersei struggles. jon travels. he convinces the wildlings to fight with the night's watch but the white walkers surprise them.

<The Dance of Dragons>

 at the wall.
jon watches wildlings enter inside castle black.
jon snow , tormund , and the surviving few thousand wildlings from hardhome arrive at the wall , before the gates of castle black. for a tense moment ser alliser thorne hesitates to let all of their old enemies through , but finally he gives the order to open the gate. thousands of wildlings come through the wall to castle black itself , including many women and children , and even the giant wun wun. many men of the night's watch glare at them. alliser coolly says to jon that he has a good heart to save so many people , but that it may end up getting them all killed .
jon reunites with samwell tarly , but is despondent , saying that the mission was a disaster and they only managed to save a small fraction of the wildlings at hardhome. sam points to different wildlings passing by and notes that each of them would have died if he had done nothing at all , so it wasn't a complete failure.
i.
 in the north.
during the night at stannis baratheon's army camp , melisandre gazes intently into the flames of her tent's brazier hoping to receive visions from the lord of light. in the distance , several tents burst into flames , sending confused men shouting , and one horse screams as he runs away on fire. during the night , ramsay bolton and twenty men raided the camp , burning much of their food supplies and heavy siege weapons. hundreds of horses also died in the fire. davos notes that their situation is now dire they don't have enough food to make the march back to castle black or to advance to winterfell , and without their siege weapons they have little chance of storming the castle to take its food supplies anyway. stannis asks how this could happen and davos insists that the boltons know the north's terrain better than they do so it was easy for a raiding party to sneak into camp. stannis suggests that the watchmen were either collaborating with the enemy or simply not attentive enough at their posts to allow such a disaster either way he orders them to be executed. stannis says to slaughter the dead horses for their meat , which should at least buy them a little time.
stannis's demeanor becomes grave and half stunned , as he believes there is only one course of action to take. he starts by ordering davos to return to castle black to ask for more supplies from jon snow. davos is confused given that even if jon did decide to resupply them the provisions probably wouldn't reach them in time , and wonders why stannis would send him instead of just a messenger. stannis insists that it is because he needs his hand of the king to engage in diplomacy to win jon over but in reality , stannis sends davos away so he wouldn't be around to stop what stannis was planning on doing next.
davos visits the tent of stannis's daughter shireen baratheon to say goodbye. she is enjoying reading a book by grand maester munkun about the dance of the dragons , a major civil war in the history of the seven kingdoms. they share a laugh about how a knight tried to kill the dragon vhagar by sneaking up on it with a mirrored shield , but it didn't fool the dragon , who promptly roasted the knight. davos gives her a wooden stag figurine he has been carving as a present. she asks why he has been so nice to her , and he explains that he felt bad that his son matthos always insisted that his father learn to read and he never did. matthos died in the war , and by teaching davos to read shireen helped him fulfill his son's wish.
some time after davos leaves , stannis himself visits shireen , visibly shaken but trying to speak to her kindly. he asks about her reading , and she explains that the dance of the dragons was a great civil war between rhaenyra targaryen and her half brother aegon , each of whom thought they deserved to sit on the iron throne. the great lords of the seven kingdoms each declared for one or the other , dividing the realm in half , and tearing westeros apart. brother fought brother and dragon fought dragon in the devastating war. it was a disaster for house targaryen as well , who never truly recovered. stannis asks who she would have chosen , rhaenyra or aegon , and she says she wouldn't have chosen either it was all of the choosing sides that plunged westeros into civil war. stannis gravely responds that sometimes the world forces a man to choose even if he doesn't want to , but if he stays true to himself he knows what he must do , and then it isn't really a choice at all even if he hates doing it. shireen says it's all right and she wants to help him , though he responds that she doesn't even know what he wants. she doesn't care and asks if there is any way she can help , and he says that there is. shireen insists that she wants to , because she is princess shireen of house baratheon , his daughter. they hug and he embraces her tightly and stannis whispers forgive me .
later , shireen exits her tent as well and sees all of the soldiers gathered around , and asks where her father is. coming to the front of the assembly , she sees melisandre in front of a wooden pyre with a large stake in the middle. she starts shouting to see her father , but is grabbed by soldiers who drag her to the pyre and tie her to the stake. melisandre soothingly tries to calm her by saying that it will all be over soon. shireen's cries ring out through the camp , but no one intervenes. stannis and shireen's mother selyse then appear in the crowd. shireen sees them and begs her mother and father to help , but they do nothing. selyse insists aloud to herself that the sacrifice is what the lord of light wants.
 stannis watches as shireen is sacrificed.
melisandre begins praying and announces that they offer up the life of this girl to the lord of light , and sets the pyre on fire. as she explained to stannis before , she believes that sacrificing shireen's life which contains the power of a king's blood will gain the lord of light's favor , who in return will aid them in their time of need by lifting the blizzard. stannis believes that if they do nothing , they will remain snowbound and all starve to death here. shireen continues to repeatedly cry mother , please and father , please eventually even selyse , who only had a cold and non existent relationship with her daughter , suddenly breaks and rushes forward , begging that they can't go through with it. soldiers restrain her , however , and she sinks to the ground crying in despair. shireen's cries become even more frightened , but stannis continues to watch even as selyse sobs on the ground. as the flames begin to consume shireen she wordlessly screams in pain and fear , and eventually even stannis cannot bear to look anymore as she burns to death.
i.
 in dorne.
jaime sits and speaks with doran.
jaime lannister is escorted into the main apartments of the water gardens by areo hotah , to be received by prince doran martell in a luxurious solar , along with ellaria sand , doran's son trystane martell , and jaime's niece myrcella baratheon. they lounge on a circle of couches , myrcella cuddling with trystane. jaime notes that myrcella is wearing a revealing dornish style dress now , and she says that the warm climate of dorne agrees with her.
coming to the point , doran asks jaime why he has snuck in to dorne to abduct myrcella back to king's landing. he says he feared for her safety , but when doran insists why he didn't just send a letter by messenger raven , he explains that they received a threatening message myrcella's lannister lion pendant jammed in the mouth of dead viper. doran glares at ellaria , while a confused myrcella explains that her pendant was simply stolen from her room.
jaime asks if doran intends to behead him , but acting more sympathetic now that jaime revealed he was threatened first he says that he will not , because he wishes to avoid war. he has seen what war can do , bodies piled on the battlefield and orphans left starving in cities at home , and he will not lead his people into that. ellaria bluntly asks what he will do , break bread with the lannisters however he says that is precisely what he will do , as wine is poured for jaime , and he raises his own goblet and offers a toast to king tommen , first of his name , long may he reign. jaime returns the toast but ellaria deliberately pours out her wine onto the floor in disgust.
doran asks if tommen indeed commands that his sister be returned to the capital , and jaime politely says he does , to which doran says he cannot disobey his king myrcella will return to king's landing. she is upset for a moment , but then doran explains his solution his son trystane will go along with them , to take over the seat on the small council which tywin granted to oberyn , but which was vacated by his death. doran insists that for the alliance between the iron throne and dorne to continue , the engagement of trystane and myrcella must stand , and trystane will simply take his uncle oberyn's place on the small council. jaime finds doran's request entirely reasonable , and myrcella is ecstatic that she will not be separated from trystane , so jaime agrees. ellaria gets up to leave and snaps that it is no wonder that doran cannot stand , because he has no spine. as she walks out he grabs her by the arm and lowers his voice , saying that she is the mother of four of his nieces and for their sake he hopes she has a long and happy life but if she talks to him that way again , she will not.
jaime then asks what fate will befall bronn , who is still imprisoned. bronn punched out trystane when they tried to take myrcella , and jaime is asked what the normal punishment is for striking a prince where he is from. jaime politely insists that bronn was only following orders and they can't punish him for simply following jaime's commands. trystane agrees , saying he has learned the value of mercy from his father , but that he has one condition .
in the prison cells , nymeria and tyene sand spar out of boredom , as obara tries to ignore them and get some sleep. the guards arrive and release bronn , and tyene mocks him as he leaves. areo leads bronn back to the solar where doran , jaime , and the rest remain. bronn apologizes to trystane when he sees him and says he didn't mean anything by hitting him before. jaime then gladly informs bronn that the martells agreed to let bronn go with jaime , but on one condition wordlessly , areo then delivers it by striking bronn in the face with his elbow , the large guard captain hitting him so hard that he is knocked to the floor. thus his debt to trystane is settled.
later , in the courtyard , areo brings ellaria and the sand snakes before prince doran in his wheelchair. doran gives ellaria an ultimatum she can either choose to swear allegiance to him and that she will not try something like this again , or she can choose death. restraining tears , she kneels and kisses his hand. doran says that he believes in second chances and she is forgiven but sternly warns her that he does not believe in third chances.
ellaria then finds jaime in a study writing a letter back to king's landing informing of his return. he writes very poorly , given that he is using his non dominant left hand , and ellaria remarks that he writes like a seven year old. ellaria notes how odd it is that she and oberyn were looked down on for their sexuality in king's landing , and jaime is scorned for his incestuous love for cersei to which he remains silent and gives no acknowledgement though a hundred years ago , if his name were targaryen , no one would have blinked an eye at such a relationship. cryptically perhaps spurred by doran , she then says that she knows your daughter myrcella had no part in what befell oberyn , and maybe even jaime is innocent of that and indeed he is , as oberyn volunteered for the trial by combat . she exits , and jaime is left to ponder what seems to be her apology.
i.
 in braavos.
arya , or lanna , sells oysters , clams , and cockles on the canal streets.
arya , in her lanna persona , is once again pushing her cart through the canal streets of braavos selling oysters , clams , and cockles. she passes the thin man who sells insurance to sailors , having been given a mission by the faceless men to assassinate him with poisoned oysters. just as she reaches him , however , she stops in her tracks and stares fixedly on a boat at the dock which has caught her full attention. stepping out of the boat is master of coin mace tyrell and the commander of his guards is none other than ser meryn trant of the kingsguard , one of the names on arya's kill list which she recites as a daily prayer. meryn helped betray her father and killed her water dancing trainer syrio forel. mace was sent by cersei lannister to treat with the iron bank of braavos , which has started calling in the crown's massive debts , and at least try to gain a little more time to deal with the problem from the bankers. mace is greeted at the dock by the bank's representative , tycho nestoris. mace addresses tycho politely and amiably , though he doesn't realize that his jokes aren't really funny. all the while arya remains frozen and staring at ser meryn , ignoring the thin man's requests for some of her oysters.
arya abandons her mission to assassinate the thin man , and instead follows ser meryn as he accompanies mace. after visiting the iron bank building , meryn and a few other lannister guards depart from mace at night and go to visit a local brothel. arya sneaks into the brothel under the guise of simply selling her oysters and clams from a hand basket. the bouncer brusco doesn't want her in at first but the prostitute lhara , who is one of arya's regular customers , tells him to let her stay , as oysters are held to be an aphrodisiac. arya sells a few and then makes her way to the back chambers where she spies on meryn from behind some shutters. meryn catches a brief look at her at one point , and she seems vaguely familiar , but he just shrugs it off it has been years since he last saw her , she is older and thus looks different , she has different braavosi style hair and clothes , and he doesn't think that arya would logically be in braavos .
the brothel's madam presents several girls in succession to meryn , but he passes on each as too old. she brings out her best and most expensive prostitute , a beautiful young woman named anara , but meryn again dismisses her as too old. the madam slowly realizes that meryn is perversely interested in young girls who are barely teenagers around arya's age so she brings out a very young girl who meryn accepts gruffly , bluntly saying he expects another fresh one tomorrow. after he leaves the madam runs into arya and shoos her out.
later , arya returns to the house of black and white empty handed , having abandoned her first mission for the faceless men. when jaqen h'ghar asks what happened , she lies to him and says that the thin man simply wasn't hungry today and didn't order any of her oysters. jaqen quips that perhaps this is why he is a thin man , and arya promises that she will follow through on the assassination tomorrow. she departs , and while jaqen seems to suspect that she was lying , he makes no outward reaction to it.
i.
 in meereen.
dany claps to start the fights.
attended by tyrion lannister , missandei , and daario naharis , daenerys sits in the royal box at the daznak's pit. hizdahr zo loraq arrives late , claiming to have been putting the final touches on the arrangements for the event. when the first two combatants take the field , hizdahr indicates that daenerys is to start the fight with a clap of her hands. daario verbally spars with hizdahr for much of the first match , drawing daenerys's attention from the spectacle in front of her. her attention returns to the arena when jorah mormont gives the traditional dedication to her. in spite of jorah's previous successes , he has decidedly mixed results in the grand melee he finds himself in. the grand melee begins with six fighters , with jorah pairing up against a norvosi long axe fighter. the norvosi is able to land several blows against jorah , eventually knocking him to the ground , however jorah is able to bring out his dagger and eventually bury it into the norvosi's chest after a brief melee. .
 dany and missandei during the riots.
meanwhile , a braavosi water dancer easily dispatches his dothraki opponent , and then focuses his attention on jorah. jorah finds himself hopelessly outmatched by the water dancer and suffers many cuts from his opponent's rapier. during the fight , a meerenese pit fighter is able to lance his opponent in the chest. the water dancer eventually knocks jorah to the ground , and is about to deliver a killing blow , but fails to notice the pit fighter who kills him from behind. jorah then battles the pit fighter and kills him and is the last fighter standing.
at this moment jorah suddenly grabs and hurls a spear at the royal box embedding itself in a son of the harpy sneaking up behind daario. the sons of the harpy reveal themselves on every level of the arena and begin slaughtering collaborating masters and freedmen alike hizdahr included. jorah and daario evacuate daenerys from the royal box , while tyrion rescues missandei. finding the exits blocked , the group makes a stand in the center of the pit with remainder of the unsullied defenders. seeing they are hopelessly outnumbered , daenerys takes missandei's hand and closes her eyes , ready to face her death.
 dany climbs on , and rides drogon.
at that moment , a draconic screech pierces the air , and drogon descends upon the arena , flying out of a giant flame burst.
many of the sons scatter in terror as drogon bites , crushes and mercilessly burns the nearest ones to death. the sons rally enough to attack drogon with spears , which daenerys hastily makes an effort to remove. trying to get drogon out of the sons' range , daenerys climbs atop his back and bids him to fly valahd , becoming the first targaryen dragonrider in over a century. the sons of the harpy routed for now , daario , jorah , missandei and tyrion look on in astonishment as drogon soars away.
 the dance of dragons is the ninth episode of the fifth season of game of thrones. it is the forty ninth episode of the series overall. it premiered on june 7 , 2015. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by david nutter.
stannis confronts a troubling decision. jon returns to the wall. mace visits the iron bank. arya encounters someone from her past. dany reluctantly oversees a traditional celebration of athleticism.

<Mother's Mercy>

 in the north.
as the snow begins to melt , melisandre is elated. still grieving , stannis prepares to march on winterfell. however , one of his generals informs him that nearly half of his men have deserted mainly the sellswords , who have also run away with all their horses. another soldier comes with more bad news selyse has hanged herself out of grief for her daughter. as he views her body , his general reports that melisandre has fled.
 battle of winterfell.
marching across the fields with less than half the men he once had , stannis has his men start preparing for the siege , but is instead met in combat early by the bolton army. the mounted bolton army easily defeats stannis' tired and mountless army. wounded and exhausted , stannis fights off two remaining soldiers in the aftermath of the carnage and collapses against a tree.
brienne of tarth was warned by podrick payne of stannis's arrival and leaves her watch for sansa's signal. after the battle she waits and finds a wounded stannis. she declares who she is and that her king was killed by his brother's shadow that bore his face , before drawing her sword to slay him. stannis , having lost everything , simply accepts his fate to die he tells brienne to do her duty . after a moment's hesitation , brienne swings her sword at him. elsewhere , ramsay finishes off the few remaining baratheon soldiers and heads back to winterfell.
 theon and sansa prepare to jump.
in winterfell itself , sansa uses a corkscrew she pocketed earlier to escape her room , and seeks out the tower to light her signal. after the candle is lit , she sees the boltons clash with stannis's army and sees this as a time to slip out of winterfell. desperately running across the ramparts , she is caught by myranda and reek. myranda threatens sansa with a bow , however sansa , weary and realizing she can't escape a shot from a bow , tells her to kill her while there is still a part of the real her left. myranda tells sansa that ramsay needs her to have an heir and nothing more afterwards , but he does not need all of her in one piece to accomplish that. sansa braces herself for the worst as myrnada tenses her bow , but the worst does not come... for her anyway. theon finally breaks the bolton's hold on him and causes myranda to misfire , then grabs and hurls the screaming sadist over the ramparts , where she is killed instantly upon impact with the stone floor of the courtyard far below. sansa and theon run , but with ramsay just returning from the battle , they find themselves with nowhere to go. hoping to land in deep snow and survive the long fall , the two of them grasp their hands together and jump off the rampart.
 in braavos.
arya kills meryn trant ser meryn trant is looking upon three young girls in the braavosi brothel. of the three girls , two begin to cry and scream when they are whipped by meryn , however the last girl has no reaction when whipped. meryn sends the two weak girls away , and punches the last in the stomach. however , the last girl is revealed to be arya stark , after removing her fake face. she pulls out a knife and stabs meryn in both eyes and chest repeatedly , and puts a gag in his mouth to silence his cries. she then reveals her identity and reminds meryn of how he killed her dance master , syrio forel , before calling him 'no one' and slitting his throat.
arya then returns to the house of black and white and returns the face that she used to hide her identity. however , jaqen h'ghar and the waif appear and say that meryn's life was not hers to take , and that a debt must be paid. the waif grabs arya as jaqen pulls out a vial , presumably containing some kind of poison. however , he drinks the poison himself and collapses , with arya screaming for him to stay alive. arya states that he was her friend , and hears jaqen's voice behind her say 'he was no one'. she turns around to see that the waif now has jaqen's face. arya asks who the person on the floor with jaqen's face is. jaqen , in the waif's body , says that he is no one. arya begins to remove multiple faces from the person on the floor , until she sees her own face. she then begins to lose her sight as her eyes turn white and screams for help.
 in meereen.
with daenerys gone , her council is unsure on how they should continue. tyrion addresses both jorah and daario's feelings for her , understanding all too well how one could love the wrong woman. the three argue about jorah's betrayal , but they will not make any judgments without daenerys first. the dragon was seen taking her north and that is where they need to search for their queen. grey worm , still recovering from his injuries , offers to go with jorah and daario , as does tyrion. daario firmly nixes both ideas grey worm is needed to command the unsullied in keeping the city under control , while tyrion is the only one of them to have any actual political experience. he expresses confidence that with missandei's help , the pair of them should be able to keep meereen under control until they return with daenerys.
as tyrion watches daario and jorah depart the city , varys calmly walks up to tyrion. teasing tyrion about abandoning him in volantis , he is pleased to see tyrion already settling into a role that suits him. he reminds tyrion that he has experience running a city full of people trying to kill each other , and implies that he and his little birds are there to help.
i.
 in the dothraki sea.
a khalasar surrounds daenerys. meanwhile , daenerys finds herself far away from meereen , atop an impressive hill in a sea of green grass. drogon is still recovering from the wounds he received from the arena in meereen and is uninterested in flying back. unfortunately , he's also not interested in finding them any food. daenerys wanders away to find something for them , but is thrown to see a trio of dothraki bloodriders emerge. within minutes , an entire khalasar has her surrounded. understanding what might happen to her , she quickly removes a ring and drops it in the grass , determined to leave a trail.
 in dorne.
ellaria kisses myrcella goodbye.
jaime , bronn , myrcella and trystane say their farewells to the martells to return to king's landing. upon saying goodbye , ellaria sand kisses myrcella on the lips , while tyene sand flirts with bronn. aboard the ship , myrcella and jaime talk about cersei. jamie begins to come clean to myrcella , awkwardly telling her that we cannot choose who we love. myrcella then reveals that she knows that jamie is her real father , and that she is glad that he is , and the two embrace. however , myrcella's expression changes , the smile fades on her face and her nose starts to bleed. she collapses in jaime's arms. back in dorne , ellaria wipes the blood from her nose and takes the antidote for the poison coated on her lips.
 in king's landing.
cersei prepares for her penance. septa unella enters cersei's cell and orders her to confess. finally giving in , cersei is brought before the high sparrow to confess her sins. she confesses her adultery with ser lancel , but denies her incestuous relationship with her brother jaime. cersei begs to be allowed to go to the red keep to see her son tommen. the high sparrow grants her request but say that there will still be a trial to ascertain the truth behind the other charges that she still denies incest and regicide. cersei is brought to a cell where she is stripped naked and roughly washed before her hair is quickly cut short. she is brought outside were she has to walk naked through the streets of kings landing from the great sept of baelor to the red keep as punishment. accompanied by septa unella , who repeats the word shame three times and rings a bell every few steps , and six members of the faith militant , cersei performs her walk of atonement amidst the leering crowds who immediately begin pelting her with filth and vicious insults , such as cunt and brotherfucker . with bloody feet , cersei eventually makes it to the red keep and bursts into tears. upon entering the gates , cersei finds her uncle kevan lannister , grand maester pycelle and qyburn waiting for her. qyburn attempts to comfort her by covering her body with a cloak. heavy footsteps are heard , and qyburn introduces cersei to the newest member of the kingsguard a 7 8 foot tall man in golden armor. qyburn suggests cersei go inside where he can attend to her feet , which are badly injured , when the huge knight lifts her up and carries her away.
 at the wall.
jon snow tells sam what he witnessed at hardhome. he hopes the white walkers can't climb the wall as there is not enough dragonglass or valyrian steel in westeros to combat them. sam asks jon if he can travel to oldtown to study and replace aemon as the new maester of the watch. he feels there is no other way he can help them as he cannot fight , he is also afraid for gilly and her child's safety , and wishes to take them along. jon reminds him that the the citadel will also not allow sam to be with women , but is humored to hear that it is already too late for that. sam promises he will return , they toast to that and jon sees his only friend off.
davos , having returned to castle black at stannis' orders , urges jon to convince the wildlings for aid. jon refuses him , saying that they wouldn't side with stannis and this is not their fight. both of them are shocked to see a speechless and despondent melisandre return to the wall. ser davos pressures melisandre for news , specifically asking after shireen , but melisandre remains silent. after seeing the empty look in her eyes , davos lets her leave.
 olly deals the final blow to the lord commander.
that night , jon is reading messages when his steward olly tells him that a wildling knows of the whereabouts of his long missing uncle. jon snow quickly rushes with thorne to a gathered group of watch men , only to see a placard with the word traitor written on it. he turns around to find his brothers staring him down. thorne makes the first move and stabs the lord commander. for the watch thorne says , as well as the others as they close in and continue stabbing him. one after another , jon snow is betrayed , for the watch. finally a tearful eyed olly approaches last. after a moment of pause jon gasps olly before olly delivers the final blow , repeating the pledge. the brothers leave jon to die alone in the snow.
 mother's mercy is the tenth and final episode of the fifth season of game of thrones. it is the fiftieth episode of the series overall. it premiered on june 14 , 2015. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by david nutter.
stannis marches. dany is surrounded by strangers. cersei seeks forgiveness. jon is challenged.

<The Red Woman>

 in the north.
brienne and podrick meet sansa and theon.
ramsay and maester wolkan attend to the dead body of myranda. ramsay remembers the first time he met her , stating that while other people were afraid of him , she wasn't. the maester asks if they should bury her or construct a funeral pyre. ramsay says she is good meat and they should feed her to the hounds.
theon and sansa , having survived the fall from winterfell's wall , run through the wolfswood realizing there are already men with hounds chasing them. theon tries to hide their scent by crossing a river. guiding a frightened sansa , they make it across and hide by a fallen tree with theon hugging sansa to try to keep her warm. hearing the dogs still after them , theon tries to lead them away , telling sansa to keep heading north for jon and castle black. a group of bolton men sent by ramsay , with the bastard's girls , find them. theon claims sansa was hurt when they jumped and he left her to die , but the dogs find her. the leader mocks theon over what ramsay will do to him now and prepares to bring them back to winterfell. brienne and podrick arrive and a fight begins. brienne kills most of them while podrick displays the techniques she taught him , managing to kill one. he is then attacked by another and briefly holds his own before being knocked down but theon grabs a sword and kills the bolton man. sansa accepts brienne into her service. where they go next is uncertain.
roose bolton meets with ramsay afterwards and asks if preemptively assaulting the struggling army of stannis baratheon makes him feel like a winner now that they've lost sansa. a lannister army marching north could easily overwhelm the bolton troops at winterfell and the dreadfort. ramsay assures his father they will recapture sansa as he's sent his best men to find her. roose continues that they need her to rally the north against the lannisters , if need be , and subtly warns ramsay that if he fails to recapture her , his unborn brother will become his heir.
 in braavos.
in braavos , arya faces the waif.
arya is blind and asks for money in the streets , when the waif approaches her with two fighting sticks , and gives her one. arya explains that she can't fight because she's blind , the waif answers that's not my problem and starts beating her. arya poorly tries to defend herself but fails miserably , until the waif stops and says that they'll meet tomorrow.
 in meereen.
varys and tyrion walking through meereen.
varys and tyrion are seen walking through the city. after coming upon a woman and her baby , tyrion offers a coin , saying the money is for the baby , to eat. his poor valyrian frightens the woman who thinks that he wants to eat her baby. varys intercedes , explaining to the woman the money is so the baby can eat. the relieved woman accepts tyrion's generosity.
as they keep walking through the city , tyrion states that they need to find the leader of the sons of the harpy in order to bring peace to meereen. varys said that his spies have been sent all over the city , and that soon they will bring him information. their conversation is interrupted by a crowd of screaming people running from a huge cloud of smoke. the two make their way towards the origin of the smoke all the ships in the harbor have been set aflame.
 in the dothraki sea.
daenerys is captured and offered to khal moro.
daario and jorah are looking for daenerys , and come upon the charred remains of a ram. they note numerous hoof prints on the ground , making jorah realize that the dothraki have been here. on the ground , he finds the ring that daenerys intentionally dropped.
daenerys is shown walking with her hands bound , and two dothraki take her to khal moro as a gift. the khal wants to rape her , but she explains who she is , khal drogo's widow. the khal unbinds her and promises her that she will not be harmed. when daenerys asks to be escorted back to meereen in exchange for the promise of one thousand horses for her safe return , moro's wife tells her that she has to remain in the temple of vaes dothrak with the other khals' widows for the remainder of her days and become a dosh khaleen.
 in dorne.
doran dies after elliaria's deception.
ellaria helps doran get to his wheelchair , as they both reminisce about oberyn , with doran stating how he envied his late brother for the adventurous life he led. ellaria states that doran would have made a bad adventurer , while oberyn would have been a bad ruler. after settling into his chair , maester caleotte brings him a message that myrcella has died. before he can give an order , tyene stabs areo hotah in the back , killing him , while ellaria stabs doran in the chest. as he lies on the floor , his guards do nothing , indicating they have sided with ellaria. as she twists her knife into doran , ellaria angrily says he remained passive despite the brutal deaths of both his sister and brother , and that the people of dorne are with her , now. as he is gasping , doran begs ellaria to spare trystane , but ellaria coldly scoffs at him. doran then dies in a pool of his own blood.
 in king's landing.
myrcella's corpse arrives from dorne.
cersei is sitting alone in her room , when a servant enters and announces that a ship from dorne has arrived. realizing that myrcella has come home , she joyfully runs down to the harbor , only to see a grim faced jaime alongside a shrouded body. she tearfully realizes that her daughter has died.
later , in the red keep , cersei asks jaime when was the first time he saw a dead body , to which jaime replies their mother's. cersei tells of her memory of the horror she felt after first seeing her mother's corpse , and wishes not to see it happen to myrcella.
meanwhile , margaery is still imprisoned by the faith , and the high sparrow comes to visit her. she asks about her brother , loras , but he tells her that she has to confess first. when she admits that nobody is perfect without sins , he tells her that she is on the right path but still has a long way to go.
obara and nymeria arrive on prince trystane's ship , announcing their intention to kill him. nymeria offers trystane the choice of which one of the sands he'd like to fight , and he chooses nymeria , only for obara to impale him through the back of his head with her spear as he turns his back on her.
 at the wall.
at the wall , the mutineers have left jon's body where he fell. ghost is scratching at the door in grief and howling , which gets the attention of several people , including davos , who leaves his room to investigate. ser davos finds jon's dead body just before edd and some other brothers arrive. they take the body inside where edd clears a table and angrily curses thorne after closing jon's eyes. davos asks if edd trusts any of his brothers , and edd replies , the ones in this room. davos convinces edd to go bring ghost in , deciding that they need all the help they can get. melisandre arrives , stating she saw jon fighting in winterfell in the flames. davos and the black brothers doubt the dead lord commander could do such a thing and she returns to her room.
alliser thorne , othell yarwyck , and bowen marsh hold a meeting with the remaining black brothers stationed at castle black and explain their reasoning for killing the lord commander. most of the brothers come to understand them and side with the mutineers. back inside the room , davos notes thorne is sure to have made his move by now. in response , edd states he doesn't care because jon was his friend and they butchered him , then he rallies the loyal brothers to try and take out thorne in revenge. davos responds they are hopelessly outnumbered , stating ghost isn't enough when edd brings him up , before reminding them there are others nearby who owe jon their lives. realizing he means the wildlings , edd instructs them to bar the door and not let anyone in while he sneaks out to get help.
all members of the watch are shown bearing arms toward the room where jon's body is being guarded by ser davos and the men loyal to jon snow. thorne and senior members of the watch approach the room and thorne speaks to ser davos through the locked door. thorne promises full amnesty for the members of the watch. to ser davos he offers a fresh horse and safe passage to ride south or in any direction he wishes , and that he can take melisandre with him. ser davos mocks what he knows to be an insincere offer by requesting mutton. ser davos tells thorne he is a poor hunter and does not want to starve , so he needs some mutton for his trip. thorne promises him food will be provided. ser thorne says the offer is available as long as everyone in the room surrenders , and does so by sundown.
 melisandre without her magical glamor of youth.
alone in her bedroom , melisandre appears despondent and looking as if she has been betrayed or led astray by the lord of light. on a table next to her bed are various containers , some small that contain potions and other liquids. she unbuttons the front of her dress showing a young beautiful body. she then removes the dress completely and stands nude before a mirror. when she removes her large necklace the gem loses its glow. in the mirror , melisandre's reflections shows she has transformed or morphed back to a 400 year old woman she has been said to be , a frail old woman with sagging breasts , leathery skin and thin wispy white hair. fully nude , with her head bowed down in a despondent manner , she slowly climbs into bed and pulls the fur blanket on top of her.
 the red woman is the first episode of the sixth season of game of thrones. it is the fifty first episode of the series overall. it premiered on april 24 , 2016. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by jeremy podeswa.
at castle black , thorne defends his treason while edd and davos defend themselves. sansa and theon race the cold and the hounds.

<Home>

 beyond the wall.
bran stark continues his training under the three eyed raven at the tree. he is shown a scene from winterfell , watching his father and uncle benjen training in the yard as young boys. he also sees his aunt lyanna , old nan , and ser rodrik cassel. he also sees a stableboy that he realizes is a young hodor and is surprised that in his youth he was not a lackwit but was intellectually normal and could talk , and his real name is actually wylis . though bran wants to stay , he is dragged out of the vision by the three eyed raven , who warns him that it is dangerous to stay too long in such visions. outside the tree , bran finds meera reed , who still appears to be in mourning over her brother's death. though meera questions the point of her presence during bran's training , leaf states that bran will need her when he leaves the tree.
a.
 at king's landing.
in a tavern , a man drunkenly boasts of having taunted cersei during her walk of atonement to the great amusement of the other patrons. after he finishes his story , he leaves the tavern to urinate against a wall outside. as he is urinating , he is confronted by ser gregor clegane , who kills him by smashing his head against the wall. ser gregor returns to cersei's side following the murder.
myrcella's funeral is held at the great sept of baelor but cersei cannot attend. tommen has ordered that cersei be confined to the red keep since he is concerned that the faith militant will re arrest her if she steps inside the sept. in the sept , jaime and tommen talk about myrcella and prince trystane. tommen believes that cersei is to blame for prince trystane's death but tells jaime that he isn't upset with her. jaime convinces tommen to go see his mother and apologize to her as the high sparrow enters the sept. after tommen leaves , jaime begins threatening the high sparrow and asks him why cersei is being punished for her sins , but he isn't , considering he murdered the king he vowed to protect. as jaime is about to kill the high sparrow , the high sparrow seems to be unafraid to die , which confuses jaime. the high sparrow explains that if jaime chooses to kill him then many of the sparrows will die fighting him , but it wouldn't really matter since they have no names or individual power. he says that they mean nothing individually , but together they can overthrow an empire.
tommen visits cersei in the red keep and apologizes for not being more assertive during her imprisonment. he regrets letting the high sparrow lock her away and says that he should have torn the sept down with the high sparrow inside of it. he tells her that he needs her help in being a strong ruler. cersei remains uncharacteristically silent throughout the exchange , but when tommen is done speaking , she embraces him.
 in meereen.
missandei and grey worm tell tyrion that rhaegal and viserion have not been eating ever since daenerys left. tyrion explains that dragons do not do well in captivity and they will probably start eating again if they are unchained. he also suggests that dragons are intelligent enough to remember their friends , and that they will probably not harm missandei if they meet her again , since she spent so much time with them when they were little. tyrion and varys go down below the pyramid , with tyrion advancing into the darkness alone. one of the dragons emerges from the shadows and tyrion maintains eye contact. when the other emerges , tyrion puts down his torch and gently advances. to calm them , tyrion speaks gently , explaining that some say that dragons are more intelligent than humans , and tells about about a time when he was little and had asked his uncle for a dragon not even a large one , just a little one like him. they all laughed , then tyrion's father told him dragons were extinct , and tyrion says he cried himself to sleep that night. at this point , tyrion is finally close enough to release the locking pin on the second dragon's collar. the other advances on him , then gingerly turns his head to the side so tyrion can free him as well. the dragons retreat , and tyrion hastily returns to varys. tyrion instructs varys to punch him if he ever suggests doing anything like that again.
i.
 in braavos.
still a beggar on the streets , arya is again approached by the waif , who asks her name. arya says she is no one , at which the waif hits her. the waif retorts that she doesn't believe that and neither does arya. she tries to fight back , but the waif vanishes , replaced with jaqen h'ghar. he promises that if she says her name , arya will sleep under a roof that night , that she will eat , and he will restore her eyes. each time however arya says she has no name. satisfied , he tells arya to follow him , and that she is a beggar no more.
i.
 in the north.
at winterfell , ramsay and roose discuss plans with harald karstark regarding what to do about sansa. after ramsay suggests storming castle black , roose warns ramsay that such an action would turn the entire north against house bolton , adding that if he does not act more sensibly he will be discarded. at that point , maester wolkan enters and announces that roose's wife , walda , has given birth to a baby boy. ramsay , realizing that his position is weaker than ever , stabs his father to death and , in his position as the new lord bolton , he personally feeds walda and his half brother to the hounds.
in the woods , brienne fills sansa in on her encounter with arya , whilst sansa is reluctant to talk about her experiences under ramsay bolton's tyranny at winterfell. she admits that she ought to have accepted her help sooner. then theon , wracked with guilt over his betrayal of the stark family , decides to leave the group and go home. he tells sansa that brienne and pod will do a better job of looking after her , though he tearfully states that he would have gone with her all the way to castle black if necessary. he asks to take one of the horses with him , and the two share an embrace.
i.
 in the iron islands.
at pyke , it is a dark and stormy night. yara greyjoy reads a letter to king balon greyjoy about how glovers retook deepwood motte and killed all of the ironborn who held the castle. yara notes that their invasion is now a definite failure since deepwood motte was the last stronghold that the ironborn held in the north. balon tells her that they will continue fighting , but yara argues that invading the north is pointless since they are unable to hold the strongholds they conquer against the mainland armies and the strongholds in the mainlands aren't really valuable to the ironborn because they are so far away from the sea. balon says that one of the reasons that the invasion wasn't successful was because yara wasted men when she attempted to rescue theon , which she says she will not apologize for. yara continues to try to convince balon to end the rebellion , saying the only reason they were able to take strongholds in the north in the first place was because the northerners were in the south fighting a war , and now that war is over. she reminds balon that the last time they provoked the northerners too far they were crushed and her two oldest brothers were killed. balon tells her that when she rules she can be content with their current standing , but for now she needs to obey his commands or he will make another heir who will.
balon starts walking on the swinging rope bridge that separates two of the towers of pyke. through the storm , he sees a man standing on the bridge who is blocking his way. he tells the man to get out of the way , but the man reveals himself to be balon's younger brother , euron greyjoy. balon tells him that he's surprised that he's still alive , and euron mocks the drowned god , telling balon that he is the drowned god. balon explains that he heard a rumor that euron lost his senses during a storm and his crew had to tie him to the mast of the ship to prevent him from jumping overboard. euron doesn't deny the rumor , and explains to balon that he cut the tongues out of all of his crew members because he wanted silence. euron then says that balon is too old to rule and that he's been ruling long enough and it's someone else's turn. balon tells euron that he isn't a true ironborn because he lost his wits during a thunderstorm and tries to stab him , but euron throws him off the rope bridge to his death.
at balon's funeral , yara tells the priest , aeron greyjoy , balon's youngest brother , that she will find the person who did this and feed them to sharks while they're still alive. she swears to do this upon the salt throne and aeron explains to her that she isn't the ruler yet , because the law says that the kingsmoot chooses the next ruler. yara argues that her father wanted her to rule , but aeron says that he doesn't make the law.
 at the wall.
at castle black , nightfall has arrived and the band of black brothers loyal to jon have not yet surrendered. when davos refuses a final ultimatum from ser alliser thorne , the acting lord commander orders the door to be battered down with a sledgehammer. before the mutineers can break in , however , edd returns with tormund giantsbane and an army of wildlings. though thorne demands that the watchmen stand and fight , they are intimidated into surrender by the giant , wun wun , enabling an almost bloodless takeover. one archer shoots an arrow into wun wun's back , which has no effect upon the giant other than to cause wun wun to grab the archer off his perch and smash his skull against a wall. the watchmen , seeing this , quickly throw down their arms and surrender. no wildlings are hurt.
thorne , plus olly and the officers who mutinied alongside him , are led away to the ice cells. as tormund inspects jon's corpse , davos visits melisandre , who has donned her normal glamor but is still gripped by a crisis of faith. when he asks her if reviving jon is possible , she admits to having seen it done , but insists that she cannot do it , having lost faith in the lord of light due to the failure of her predictions regarding stannis baratheon to come true. after davos implores her simply to try , she agrees. after washing jon's wounds clean and burning his hair , she attempts to revive him using murmured high valyrian incantations , but it seems they have no effect. after a moment , tormund leaves , and melisandre offers a final please in the common tongue , but leaves the room , despondent. edd and finally davos follow her a moment later. once the room is empty however , ghost , who had been sleeping underneath the table upon which jon was lying , perks up , and jon suddenly awakens , gasping for air.
 home is the second episode of the sixth season of game of thrones. it is the fifty second episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 1 , 2016. it was written by dave hill and directed by jeremy podeswa.
bran trains with the three eyed raven. in king's landing , jaime advises tommen. tyrion demands good news , but has to make his own. at castle black , the night's watch stands behind thorne. ramsay bolton proposes a plan , and balon greyjoy entertains other proposals.

<Oathbreaker>

 at the wall.
as jon snow awakens and gasps for air , he slowly sits up and scans the room. he then looks down and is horrified by his stab wounds. davos seaworth , having returned to the room , is shocked but relieved and quickly helps jon as he struggles to walk. davos asks jon if he remembers anything. jon , still shocked , says yes , he remembers getting stabbed by olly and alliser thorne for bringing the wildlings to castle black. melisandre enters , shocked that the resurrection has worked. she then goes to jon and asks him where he was after his death. jon replies he saw nothing , much to melisandre's disappointment. seizing on whatever hope she still has , however , she says that the lord of light brought jon back for a reason that stannis was not the prince that was promised , but someone must be. davos asks melisandre to leave them alone so jon can adjust to his revival.
after he has recovered somewhat , jon dons his night's watch armor and the lord commander's cape , and walks into the courtyard , seeing many of the fellow brothers arrive before him. jon , still struggling to walk properly , comes down and greets the dumbfounded tormund. tormund jokes with the resurrected lord commander before hugging him tightly which slightly pains jon due to his stab wounds. jon then greets the relieved eddison tollett and they embrace.
some time later , jon oversees the public hanging of the traitors responsible for the mutiny at castle black bowen marsh , othell yarwyck , alliser thorne and olly. jon asks if any of the men have last words to say. bowen says jon shouldn't be alive , stating it's not right. jon coldly replies , neither was killing me. yarwyck pleads jon to tell his family in white harbor that he died fighting the wildlings. alliser then says he had a choice to betray his commander or the night's watch. he then says that jon bringing the wildlings was a dangerous problem and had to be stopped , and warns him that jon will be fighting their battles forever.
jon then moves on to olly , who says nothing and glares furiously at jon. jon reluctantly cuts down the rope , killing all four traitors. jon looks at olly's lifeless body. afterwards , jon takes off his cloak and hands it to the confused edd. jon then says edd can do whatever he wants with the cloak , unofficially designating edd as the 999th lord commander of the night's watch. jon then leaves the courtyards and declares his watch has ended , leaving the rest of the brothers look on in shock.
o.
 on a ship heading for oldtown.
samwell tarly , gilly , and her baby son sam are sailing on a ship to oldtown. gilly and sam have never been on a ship before. samwell is seasick and begins throwing up into a chamber pot. gilly assures samwell that it won't be long and says that she can't wait to see oldtown. gilly tells tarly that the ship's captain says that oldtown is the most beautiful city in westeros. while samwell had originally planned to go and study at the citadel , he changes his plans since he cannot bring gilly and her child along as the citadel only allows men within its walls.
unwilling to abandon gilly and sam to the streets , samwell decides to take them to his ancestral home of horn hill. while he does not get on with his father randyll tarly , samwell assures gilly that his mother and sister are very kind. samwell wants to do everything to protect gilly and her child from harm. despite some unease , gilly promises to follow samwell and let him decide what is best for them.
b.
 beyond the wall.
bran has a vision of the past again. he and the three eyed raven are at the tower of joy in dorne , shortly after the end of robert's rebellion. the last two of the targaryen kingsguard stand before the tower and block the way of a small party of northmen led by eddard stark himself. the three eyed raven identified one of ned's companions as howland reed , meera's father. eddard tells ser arthur dayne and lord commander gerold hightower to stand down , and asks why they weren't at the trident. ser arthur states that rhaegar ordered them here to guard the tower , so there they remained , even as rhaegar and aerys both died. eddard asks where his sister lyanna is , but dayne simply wishes stark the best in the wars to come. the two kingsguard draw their swords , with ser arthur saying , and now it begins , to which eddard replies now it ends. the two sides clash , with dayne making short work of a few of ned's northmen. ser arthur slowly cuts down the number of northmen , but ser gerold falls to ned's blade. eventually , ser arthur duels eddard one on one. bran expresses his shock at ser arthur's skills , with the three eyed raven confirming that the sword of the morning is better than ned. dayne easily gains the upper hand and kicks ned's sword away from him , but is unprepared for howland stabbing him through the back of the neck. eddard seems visibly uncomfortable at winning this way , but unhesitatingly delivers the killing blow to the incapacitated ser arthur. bran is shocked , as he had heard tales of this duel and never expected his father to stand for such things.
eddard runs towards the tower , having heard a woman's scream come from one of its windows towards the end of the duel. bran runs to follow eddard , calling out , but he is told it's time to go by the raven. ned looks back for a second , seemingly hearing bran , but then runs into the tower. bran tries to follow , but he is forced out of the past and back into the cave by the three eyed raven , saying he had stayed in the past for too long. bran is both angry and sad at this , but the raven asserts it was for his safety , and again sternly reminds him that the past cannot be changed. the raven further states that he's waited a thousand years for bran to arrive , and that bran will not share the raven's destiny. but before he can leave the cave , bran must learn everything.
a.
 at king's landing.
the little bird spies.
qyburn is in the company of the little birds , children who used to spy for varys. qyburn tries to win the favor of the children by attracting them with candied plums from dorne. shortly afterwards , cersei , jaime lannister and the reanimated ser gregor clegane enter. cersei wants qyburn to gather information from dorne , highgarden , the north and wherever people are trying to take advantage of their losses and plotting against them.
at the small council meeting , grand maester pycelle complains about qyburn and his experiments. ser kevan lannister , now hand of the king is heading the council which now consists of himself , pycelle , and lord mace tyrell with lady olenna tyrell in attendance to lobby for margaery and loras tyrell's release. cersei , jaime and ser gregor enter the room , startling pycelle and mace. on being questioned about what they are doing at a small council meeting , cersei replies that she is the queen , only to be corrected by olenna that the rightful queen is the one married to the king and that margaery is the one who fits that description. jaime then argues that he , as lord commander of the kingsguard , also has a right to attend. pycelle admits that ser gerold hightower once sat on the council , but dismisses this due to the mad king's eccentricities. cersei accuses kevan of not caring for her daughter myrcella , while jaime appeals to the bigger picture and urges kevan to take action against ellaria sand and the sand snakes who have taken over dorne after eliminating house martell. displeased with the newcomers , ser kevan and the small council leave the hall.
meanwhile , an angry king tommen baratheon and his kingsguard visits the high sparrow to secure permission for cersei to visit her daughter's resting place in the great sept. the high sparrow replies that cersei cannot visit because she still has not been cleared for the other sins that she is accused of. tommen criticizes the high sparrow for his self righteous treatment of cersei after she had atoned for two of her crimes. despite their differences , the high sparrow claims admiration for the deep love that cersei has for her son , tommen , which he attributes to the divine love of the mother.
when tommen asks the high sparrow why he wants to put his mother through more trials , the sparrow replies that he is merely carrying out the will of the seven. he urges the young king to turn to the seven for wisdom. before tommen leaves , less angry and more uncertain , the high sparrow tells him that the seven have worked through his grandfather and mother even though they may not acknowledge it. .
i.
 in meereen.
in the great pyramid , varys holds court when the unsullied bring in vala , a prostitute who is in league with the sons of the harpy. she had seduced and murdered several members of the second sons and unsullied. vala is defiant and states that she opposes the new regime imposed by the unsullied and second sons as illegitimate. she became a prostitute out of patriotic fervor for the old ways. varys assures vala he has no interest in torturing her and decides to strike a deal. in return for revealing who is funding the sons of the harpy , he offers her and her son safe passage on a ship bound for pentos with a bag of silver to start a new life. varys warns her that if she doesn't agree to the offer , she will be executed for her crimes , leaving her son orphaned.
meanwhile , tyrion passes the time by engaging missandei and grey worm in small talk. tyrion offers to play games with the pair but they are not interested. before tyrion can embark on a drinking game , varys returns and informs them that the wise masters of yunkai , the good masters of astapor , and the free city of volantis have been secretly funding the sons of the harpy. while grey worm advocates attacking the cities , missandei advises against it since that would leave meereen unprotected. using this information , tyrion asks varys to use his little birds to send them a message.
i.
 in the dothraki sea.
daenerys targaryen walks with the dothraki towards vaes dothrak and is ushered into the the temple of the dosh khaleen by khal moro's bloodriders. upon entering the temple , the high priestess of the dosh khaleen orders the bloodriders to leave and strips her naked , giving her a robe which the dosh khaleen wear. as daenerys puts on her new clothes , she tells the high priestess that she will soon regret what she has done as she was the wife of a great khal the queen of meereen , and the mother of dragons. the high priestess retorts that she herself was the wife of a previous great khal , savo. just as daenerys thought she would conquer the world at drogo's side , so did the high priestess think she would conquer the world at savo's. but savo was slain , and she joined the dosh khaleen. she is now content , just as daenerys would be if she is allowed to join them. when dany expressed confusion , the priestess points out that khaleesi are supposed to return to vaes dothrak immediately after their khal's death... but daenerys went out into the world. she explains that all the khalasars have gathered to decide which cities will be sacked and which tribes will be enslaved , and now they will have to decide what to do with daenerys for not coming to the dosh khaleen after khal drogo died.
i.
 in braavos.
a blind arya stark resumes her training with the waif and jaqen h'ghar , the former of whom beats her repeatedly when she lies. meanwhile , jaqen has her mixing potions blindly. during her training , arya continues sparring with the waif while answering questions about her family and the hound. arya admits to leaving the hound to die instead of killing him , despite wanting his death. the waif then interrogates arya about the people on her list cersei , gregor clegane and walder frey. the waif voices her disbelief that arya's list is so short , but arya counters by asking which name she wants added. when arya insists that she is no one , the waif does not believe her and tries to hit her. however , arya is able to deflect her blow and leap out of the way , surprising the waif. after confirming that arya has mastered blind sparring , jaqen approaches arya and offers to give back her sight if she tells him her name. arya replies that a girl has no name. jaqen then leads arya to the well where he scoops up a bowl of water , which he offers her. she is reluctant , as others have drunk from it and died , but he says that if she is truly no one there is nothing to fear. arya drinks from the bowl and her sight is restored. when jaqen asks arya who she is , she replies that she is no one.
 at winterfell.
the umbers led by smalljon umber travel to winterfell to meet ramsay bolton , the new lord of winterfell and warden of the north. smalljon and ramsay chat about their experiences with their fathers. smalljon mentions that his father greatjon umber is dead but admits that he would have killed him if the opportunity arose. ramsay denies murdering the late roose bolton and claims that he was poisoned by his enemies , but smalljon doesn't bother believing him.
smalljon has come to forge an alliance with the boltons against jon snow and the wildlings. however , he refuses to bow to ramsay citing the late robb stark's betrayal at the hands of roose. smalljon then reveals that he has a gift for ramsay , who asks if it is a girl , hoping for sansa stark. smalljon replies otherwise and umber guards enter the room with two hooded figures. the first turns out to be osha the second is rickon stark , ned stark's youngest child. osha and rickon appear uncomfortable to find themselves in ramsay's presence. when ramsay asks smalljon to verify rickon's identity , an umber retainer enters the room carrying the severed head of the direwolf shaggydog , and rickon's expression of dismay confirms this was his pet. satisfied , a gleeful ramsay then issues a sarcastic welcome home lord stark.
 oathbreaker is the third episode of the sixth season of game of thrones. it is the fifty third episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 8 , 2016. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by daniel sackheim.
daenerys meets her future. bran meets the past. tommen confronts the high sparrow. arya trains to be no one. varys finds an answer. ramsay gets a gift.

<Book of the Stranger>

 in king's landing.
underneath the great sept of baelor , septa unella enters queen margaery tyrell's cell and leads her to a private meeting with the high sparrow. the high sparrow asks her what she would do if he allowed her to leave that day. margaery replied that she wants to return to her family and her husband tommen baratheon. the high sparrow respects her love for her family but tells her that attachment leads to sin , citing his experience as a cobbler. margaery manages to impress the sparrow with her knowledge of the book of the stranger , which she admits septa unella had read at her. the high sparrow chuckles and agrees that unella has a habit of reading at people instead of to them.
the high sparrow recounts how in his youth he was a womanizer and drunkard. he underwent a conversion experience the morning after an orgy , as his drunken guests lay naked all around his house. tired of what he was now perceiving as a meaningless existence , the high sparrow then turned his life around and became a devoted member of the faith of the seven. he then left his job as a cobbler and devoted his life to the poor and destitute. believing he has found a way to reach margaery , the sparrow allows her to visit her brother loras tyrell.
 margaery remaining in her cell.
she finds a dejected loras lying on the floor of his cell. loras has lost the will to continue resisting but margaery tells him to stay strong because he is the future of house tyrell. loras tells them that he only wants his imprisonment to end and pleads with her to help him. margaery tells loras that the sparrow is trying to use them to break each other and again tells him to stay strong.
at the red keep , cersei lannister walks in on grand maester pycelle advising king tommen to accommodate the high sparrow and the faith militant. cersei requests that pycelle leave the room while she talks to her son alone under the pretext of meeting him for updates about the previous small council meetings. during their conversation , tommen proposes that the iron throne not antagonize the sparrows further in order to avoid endangering margaery's life. cersei then reminds her son about the humiliation that she endured at their hands and exploits tommen's love for margaery. she convinces her son that the high sparrow has no respect for kings , queens , and society. tommen then reveals a secret that the high sparrow shared with him.
armed with this new information , cersei barges into a small council meeting between kevan lannister , olenna tyrell , and jaime lannister. while kevan and olenna are initially hostile , cersei convinces them to listen to her. she then informs the council that the high sparrow has planned to make margaery do the walk of atonement. olenna is horrified that the sparrows plan to debase her granddaughter. jaime then urges the council to allow the tyrells to march their army into king's landing , crush the faith militant , and bring margaery and loras back to the red keep into crown custody. kevan says that tommen expressly forbid him to use the lannister army he commands at the city to make a move against the great sept , for fear that the faith militant will harm margaery in retaliation. jaime suggests that olenna send house tyrell's army to the city instead , and points out to his uncle that tommen only forbade his army from making a move but he never expressly told him to prevent anyone else from trying , so kevan wouldn't be breaking any commands if his forces simply stand down when the tyrell army arrives. the tyrell army will surround the great sept , intimidating the sparrows into releasing margaery and loras , without any blood actually being shed and by the time tommen finds out what they've done he will already be happy with the outcome. kevan's interest is now turned , but he still expresses reluctance should they fail. cersei is able to make him change his mind by exploiting his hatred towards the sparrows for taking his last remaining son and heir lancel lannister. olenna agrees that blood will be shed no matter what they do at this point , so it's better if it's the sparrows' blood and not theirs.
a.
 at the wall.
at castle black , eddison tollett helps jon snow pack up his things. edd scolds jon for leaving the night's watch after taking an oath , to which jon replies that he gave his life for the night's watch and can't trust his brothers. at that moment , the horns sound for the arrival of travellers. sansa stark , brienne of tarth and podrick payne ride through the gates and dismount in the courtyard. jon rushes out and sees sansa for the first time since the starks left winterfell for king's landing , and they embrace. later that night , they converse and reminisce on their childhood. sansa proposes they take winterfell back from ramsay bolton but jon says he's done fighting , especially after hanging olly.
 jon and sansa are reunited at the wall.
davos seaworth asks whether melisandre will stay at castle black and she replies she will do as jon snow , the prince that was promised , commands. davos asks what happened to stannis and she replies he was defeated in battle. when he asks about shireen , melisandre is reluctant to speak. their conversation is interrupted by brienne , who recognizes davos and melisandre as stannis' former entourage. still bitter over the death of king renly baratheon , brienne warns melisandre that she does not forget or forgive. she also tells them that she executed stannis after he admitted using blood magic to assassinate renly.
some time later , jon receives a letter from ramsay bolton stating that he has rickon stark at winterfell and if sansa is not returned , he will slaughter every wildling at castle black , let his men rape sansa , and feed jon and rickon to his dogs. tormund says he has 2 , 000 able fighters , far less than the estimated 5 , 000 ramsay has. sansa says that they have to try to retake their home and rescue their brother and that the houses of the north will unite behind jon as the son of the true warden of the north. jon resolves to take ramsay down.
i.
 in the vale.
robin practices his archery.
at runestone , robin arryn trains at his archery in front of lord yohn royce. petyr baelish arrives with a retinue of arryn guards and a pet falcon as a belated name day gift. royce reminds baelish that he told him that he was taking sansa with him to the fingers , but he received word that she had been married to ramsay bolton. baelish tells him that on the way to the fingers they were set upon by a large force of bolton men. a confrontation ensues , in which petyr accuses royce of giving away the information regarding the location of sansa stark to house bolton. when royce accuses baelish of slander , petyr reminds him that robin is the lord of the vale , and asks for his judgment. robin then asks baelish if they should throw lord royce from the moon door , which prompts the surrounding knights , including those loyal to royce , to muster themselves. royce swears his loyalty to robin , and he is let off without punishment on baelish's recommendation. royce comes onto the dark realization that littlefinger has control over robin. petyr and robin decide they have to muster the vale knights to march north and aid sansa.
 in the north.
at winterfell , osha is brought before ramsay bolton , who says that while her fellow captive rickon stark has value to ramsay , he is unsure of her worth. osha denounces the starks , saying that her servitude and loyalty to them were forced. she also attempts to seduce ramsay , climbing onto his lap and kissing him , all the while trying to get the knife he had been using to peel apples. ramsay seemingly falls for it , saying that it took much longer for him to get theon greyjoy over to his side but that theon told him everything , including how osha had seduced theon in order to help rickon and bran stark escape winterfell. osha realizes that she has been lured into a trap , and tries to stab ramsay , only for him to slash her throat. she dies shortly thereafter.
i.
 in the iron islands.
theon returns home.
theon greyjoy returns home to pyke , where he learns of the death of his father , balon greyjoy. his sister , yara , is unhappy about his return and his refusal to leave the dreadfort when she made an attempt to rescue theon from ramsay bolton. theon explains that ramsay broke him into a thousand pieces , which yara affirms yes , he sent us one of those pieces referring to the box containing theon's penis that she and balon greyjoy received. yara then suspects that theon has come back to declare himself king of the iron islands , but he insists that he does not want the crown , instead wishing for yara to rule , with him helping her in any way that he can.
i.
 in meereen.
tyrion lannister along with grey worm , missandei , and varys meet with representatives of the good masters of astapor , the wise masters of yunkai , and the slave trading city of volantis who have arrived by sea. as the diplomatic mission enters the harbor , grey worm advocates using military force. when tyrion explains that he is able to empathize with slaves because he spent one day as a slave , missandei counters that he has not experienced slavery. the emissaries are tyrion's former slave master yezzan zo qaggaz , the yunkai'i wise master razdal mo eraz and the volantene triarch belicho paenymion.
 varys , tyrion and missandei converge to prepare for their meeting.
in their meeting chambers , yezzan marvels at how tyrion went from being a nearly worthless slave to the de facto ruler of meereen. the slave trading cities offer to give daenerys targaryen and her mercenaries a large pot of money if they sail away from slaver's bay. when missandei defends daenerys's actions in liberating slaves , razdal contends that slavery has existed for centuries. after hearing their offer , tyrion proposes a counter offer. he offers to give them a seven year grace period to phase out slavery and to compensate slave owners , however they must end all backing for the sons of the harpy regardless of whether they admit this backing or not . he then cautions them that they will not get a better offer. tyrion then gives them time to consider his offer , though grey worm and missandei insist on abolishing slavery.
tyrion and his entourage are later confronted by a crowd of former slaves in the meereen throne room. a freedman demands to know when daenerys will return while another is appalled at the idea of tyrion negotiating with slave traders. tyrion insists he is doing his best to rule the city in daenerys's absence. the freedmen do not trust tyrion , a foreigner and a newcomer , and look to grey worm and missandei for reassurance. despite their misgivings , they both publicly back tyrion's diplomacy in front of the freedmen. in private , grey worm and missandei warn tyrion that the masters will outmaneuver him , despite his best efforts to do the same to them.
i.
 in vaes dothrak.
ser jorah mormont and daario naharis approach the outskirts of vaes dothrak and discard their weapons , as drawing a blade in the city is considered sacrilege. within the city itself , jorah and daario run afoul of akho and iggo who see through jorah's claims to be a wine merchant. daario takes care of iggo while akho tackles jorah. the knight is nearly undone , but daario saves him at the last minute with the stiletto he smuggled in. at jorah's insistence , daario smashes aggo's skull with a rock so that no one will think he was killed with a bladed weapon.
 dany proves to the dothraki who their true khaleesi is.
meanwhile , the high priestess of the dosh khaleen gives daenerys a commentary on the other crones. some of them hate daenerys , thinking the dothraki should not interbreed with other races , but the high priestess dismisses them , saying that the dothraki have always interbred and have never been concerned with blood purity. to illustrate her point , the high priestess indicates another of the khaleen , a lhazareen girl ornela taken from her village at the age of twelve. daenerys asks to relieve herself , and the high priestess sends ornela with her. as they walk , daenerys learns that ornela's khal died when she was only sixteen. the pair are interrupted by jorah and daario , who take the lhazareen hostage. daenerys , unsurprised to see them , cancels their plans for escape they have a slim chance of leaving vaes dothrak , let alone getting back to meereen and tells them that she has a plan of her own. she asks ornela if she is willing to help them , calling her a khaleesi queen instead of a khaleen crone . the girl reluctantly agrees.
during the khalar vezhven , the khals argue about how to deal with iggo and akho's deaths khal moro defuses the situation by reminding them that ahko was a member of his khalasar , and he does not care about finding the killer if he was stupid enough to get himself killed. daenerys is then brought in by the two priestesses she befriended before. moro insists that she join the dosh khaleen , but another khal expresses interest in making her his khaleesi , while another suggests giving her to the wise masters in exchange for ten thousand horses. daenerys dismisses all of them she claims that they are all petty and weak , and reminds them that khal drogo was willing to cross the poison water in wooden horses for his conquests.
 jorah and daario bow down to their queen.
stating that none of the khals is fit to lead the dothraki , daenerys declares that she will lead them herself. after a pause , moro and the khals burst into laughter. dany reminds them that her husband , in the same temple in which they all now sit , declared that he would lead a dothraki army across the narrow sea to retake the iron throne for his khaleesi and that all the khals have done since is to raid and plunder villages in lieu of any meaningful conquest. disgusted with her insolence , moro declares that she will be raped by each of the khals , then by all of their bloodriders , and then , if she is still alive , by their horses. daenerys is unfazed by the threats , as she knocks down the braziers in the hut , setting everything aflame. the khals desperately attempt to escape the rapidly spreading fire , only to find the temple's only door barred , the bodies of the two men guarding it lying dead outside.
as the flames climb higher , the dosh khaleen and khalasars gather in confusion. eventually , the doors collapse and daenerys emerges , naked and unburned , with the entire leadership present at vaes dothrak dead. many of the assembled bow immediately , with the high priestess and the rest of the dosh khaleen following after a moment. jorah and daario move to the front of the crowd and bow last.
 book of the stranger is the fourth episode of the sixth season of game of thrones. it is the fifty fourth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 15 , 2016. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by daniel sackheim.
tyrion strikes a deal. jorah and daario undertake a difficult task. jaime and cersei try to improve their situation. jon and sansa reunite.

<The Door>

 at the wall.
sansa refuses littlefinger's offer.
sansa stark receives a message bearing the sigil of house baelish , asking her to a meeting in mole's town. accompanied by brienne , sansa furiously confronts petyr baelish , asking if he was aware what ramsay bolton was capable of. baelish deflects , saying he has the knights of the vale waiting at moat cailin to aid sansa. she is mistrustful of him when he claims he had no idea of ramsay's abusive treatment of her. she doubts baelish's ability to protect her or even himself , threatening to have brienne kill him. he says he'll do whatever she asks and sansa tells him to leave and never come back for her. he obeys , but not before informing that her great uncle brynden tully has recaptured riverrun and recommending she seek him out and the remaining loyal tully forces. sansa says she already has an army , her brother jon snow's army of wildlings. half brother , baelish clarifies as he walks away , reminding her that jon is only her half brother.
at castle black , a war council is called , and is attended by sansa , brienne , podrick , jon , davos , melisandre , tormund and eddison tollett , who discuss the need for more men to defend castle black , since the karstarks and umbers , two major houses in the north , have declared for ramsay. jon points out that they can summon the rest of the minor houses , such as the mormonts , glovers , cerwyns , and mazins , to rival their enemies , and sansa reveals brynden's successful retaking of riverrun , though she claims she learned via one of ramsay's ravens in order to stop jon from pursuing littlefinger. sansa subsequently tasks brienne and podrick with securing brynden's help while the rest of them leave castle black to start building their army. before leaving castle black , sansa presents jon with a new cloak like their father's , carrying the stark sigil.
i.
 in braavos.
the waif continues to drill arya , mocking her high born origins. jaqen h ghar explains that the faceless men were slaves in valyria before establishing the free city of braavos and the house of black white. handing arya a vial , jaqen tells her an actress , lady crane , will be the next to receive the many faced god s gift. .
 arya watches the bloody hand , a stage play in braavos loosely based on the recent civil wars in westeros.
arya enjoys the spectacle of the actors re enacting the war of the five kings , playing baratheons and lannisters , but her pleasure ceases when her father , and his execution , are inaccurately caricatured. eddard is portrayed as a buffoon , and the actress who plays sansa has her breasts bared to the audience. arya sneaks into the dressing room after the play to observe her target the actress playing cersei who appears to be a clever , decent woman. arya later shares with jaqen her plan to poison lady crane s rum , which no one else in the troupe drinks. arya suspects that a jealous younger actress , bianca , has commissioned the kill. jaqen cuts her off , reminding her a servant does not question.
 in the dothraki sea.
jorah shows his arm to daenerys.
daenerys is unsure of what to do with jorah , having banished him twice , seeing him defiantly return twice , and him twice saving her life. jorah finally confesses his love for daenerys , but also reveals his spreading greyscale infection , and says that this time , he needs to leave for good. he starts to leave and states his plan to take his own life well before the greyscale envelops him , but daenerys tearfully commands him to find a cure and come back to her side when she conquers westeros. jorah then departs while daenerys and daario naharis lead the dothraki horde back to meereen.
i.
 in meereen.
kinvara , the high red priestess.
while the rulers of meereen enjoy a tenuous peace , tyrion reminds them of the need to convince the meereenese that everything has been done with daenerys's blessing , as the masters could use tyrion and varys's foreign status against them to reclaim slaver's bay. to that end , tyrion invites kinvara , high priestess of the red temple of volantis , to negotiate spreading the word of daenerys's accomplishments. to tyrion's surprise , kinvara appears to be highly accommodating in supporting tyrion's goals , as she firmly believes that daenerys is the prince that was promised. varys is more skeptical , being suspicious of any practitioners of magic , and points out that melisandre had already declared stannis baratheon to be the prince , only for him to be defeated twice. kinvara says that while the lord of light has a plan , the humans following him do occasionally make errors. she then unnerves varys by revealing that she knows varys was emasculated by a second rate sorcerer and offers to repeat the words he heard in the flames , and identify who it was that spoke. varys is uncharacteristically unsettled by this revelation. kinvara then assures tyrion that she will send the preachers and priests best suited to the task at hand.
i.
 in the iron islands.
as the kingsmoot is held , yara greyjoy is the first to lay claim to the salt throne. yara argues that raiding the mainland is not enough for their people , and that they need to use military force to teach the mainlanders a lesson. an ironborn man challenges yara's candidacy on the grounds that she is a woman and points out that her brother theon greyjoy has returned. theon endorses his older sister and urges the gathering to do the same stressing that she is a warrior , a reaver , and an ironborn. many shout for yara to be their queen.
before they can crown yara , euron greyjoy joins the gathering to lay claim to the salt throne. he openly mocks theon for his military failures and emasculation before deriding yara as a woman. yara in turn accuses euron of killing their king and her father balon. to her surprise , euron admits killing balon but then defends his actions on the grounds that balon was leading them to defeat in the north. when euron states that his only regret is not killing balon years earlier , he is met by resounding cheers from the crowd. theon then counters that euron had spent years gallivanting overseas while yara was commanding ironborn ships and men. yara then suggests building a massive fleet to attack and make their mark on westeros.
 euron greyjoy , king of the iron islands.
in response , euron announces that he also supports expanding the ironborn fleet. revealing a trick up his sleeve , he then proposes to marry daenerys targaryen and then carry her army and dragons back to westeros. the ironborn support euron's plan and declare him king. the drowned men priest aeron greyjoy then leads euron down to the sea to be drowned and reborn , as is the custom. knowing that euron will kill them as soon as he is able , yara , theon , and many of their loyalists flee the iron islands during euron's coronation , taking much of the iron fleet with them. after euron revives himself , he is crowned by his brother aeron. after learning that his niece and nephew have fled with their best ships , euron calls on his followers to build their own ships so that he may pursue the pair and kill them.
b.
 beyond the wall.
the three eyed raven shows bran a vision of a heart tree amid spirals of standing stones in a lush green valley. his vision shows leaf and other children of the forest talking amongst themselves , then looking eagerly at a captive bound to the tree. leaf approaches and forces a dragonglass dagger into the captive's chest. the captive screams , but does not die , instead becoming the first white walker.
bran immediately confronts leaf about creating the white walkers in the first place. leaf tries to explain that they were at war with the first men and were desperate. later , bran is the only one in the cave awake and is anxious to warg back into the weirwood tree. bran wargs into the tree by himself and sees the army of the dead. he slowly walks through the army until he comes to a space occupied by four white walkers , including the night king. as bran becomes aware that the the night king and the dead are now able to see him , the night king grabs his arm , branding him with an icy mark. he breaks out of the vision with a scream waking the others. the three eyed raven tells bran , meera and hodor that the night king is now able to locate bran and able to bypass the powerful magic keeping the white walkers and the wights out of the cave. as a result , they must leave now and bran must become the three eyed raven. bran asks whether he is ready , and the raven says no at which point bran's eyes whiten as he enters another vision.
as meera and hodor are preparing to leave they notice the air is so cold their breath is visible , indicating the arrival of the army of the dead outside of the cave. the night king and three white walkers start marching towards the cave. the children of the forest try using magic projectiles to fend the walkers off , but are overwhelmed. they light a fire around the entrance which prevents the wights from entering but the walkers extinguish a pathway and walk through. the wights end up climbing over the weirwood and dropping through roots at the top of the cave. meera desperately tries to get bran out of the vision and attempts to get the frightened hodor to carry bran away to no avail. using a dragonglass tipped spear , meera kills the first white walker that enters , and fights alongside the remaining children of the forest to try to fend off the wights until bran wakes up. wights begin to swarm the cave , killing all of the children of the forest except for leaf , as meera starts yelling at bran to warg into hodor.
in the vision , bran is at winterfell watching ned stark say goodbye to his father , rickard stark , before being sent to the vale as a ward. while still in the vision , bran hears meera's cries to warg into hodor and the three eyed raven tells him to listen to her. bran wargs into both the present day hodor in the cave and wylis , the young version of hodor in his vision.
 wylis seizing , as his words hold the door evolve into hodor .
the hodor in the cave puts bran's body on a sled and starts hauling him down a tunnel leading out of the cave with leaf and meera , as bran's direwolf summer is killed attacking the wights. as the wights are closing in on them , leaf sacrifices herself , using magic to cause a huge explosion , buying the other three enough time to get to a door at the end of the tunnel. while the three eyed raven and bran are still sharing a vision , the night king kills the three eyed raven , and his figure within bran's vision blows away as ashes and rags.
with some difficulty hodor pushes the door open and pulls bran through , coming back to help meera close the door just as the wights approach. meera grabs bran's sled and tells hodor to bar the exit , shouting to hold the door . inside bran's vision , wylis notices bran , who links the present hodor to the past wylis. wylis begins to seize when he enters the mind of his future self. as meera continues to yell hold the door to present day hodor , within bran's vision wylis falls to the ground convulsing and starts repeating this same sentence in the midst of his seizure. eventually , hold the door slurs into hodor , as his condition deteriorates and it becomes apparent this is the moment hodor lost the ability to say any other words , and his destiny was fixed.
present day hodor braces himself against the door long enough for meera to disappear into the snow with bran's unconscious body on the sled. inevitably , the wights break through parts of the wood and begin scratching and stabbing a visibly distressed hodor. with no possibility of escape , all that is shown at the end is young wylis in the past seizing and crying out hodor.
 the door is the fifth episode of the sixth season of game of thrones. it is the fifty fifth episode of the series overall. it premiered on may 22 , 2016. it was written by david benioff and d.b. weiss , and directed by jack bender.
tyrion seeks a strange ally. bran learns a great deal. brienne goes on a mission. arya is given a chance to prove herself.

